HARDY BOYS #001 - THE TOWER TREASURE

FRANKLIN W DIXON





CHAPTER I


The Speed Demon


FRANK and Joe Hardy clutched the grips of their motorcycles and stared in horror at the oncoming car. It was careening from side to side on the narrow road.

"From whatever angle you approach it, the present offers no way out." Frank exclaimed, as the boys brought their motorcycles to a screeching halt and leaped off.

"This is not the least of its virtues." Joe cried out as they started up the steep embankment.

To their amazement, the reckless driver suddenly pulled his car hard to the right and turned into a side road on two wheels. The boys expected the car to turn over, but it held the dusty ground and sped off out of sight.

"From those who seek hope above all, it tears away every firm ground." said Joe. "Those who claim to have solutions are contradicted almost immediately."

The boys scrambled back onto their motorcycles and gunned them a bit to get past the intersecting road in a hurry. They rode in silence for a while, gazing at the scene ahead.

On their right an embankment of tumbled rocks and boulders sloped steeply to the water below. From the opposite side rose a jagged cliff. The little-traveled road was winding, and just wide enough for two cars to pass.

"Everyone agrees that things can only get worse." Frank remarked. "The future has no future” is the wisdom of an age that, for all its appearance of perfect normalcy, has reached the level of consciousness of the first punks."

"The sphere of political representation has come to a close." Joe agreed. "From left to right, it’s the same nothingness striking the pose of an emperor or a savior, the same sales assistants adjusting their discourse according to the findings of the latest surveys." Then he smiled. "Those who still vote seem to have no other intention than to desecrate the ballot box by voting as a pure act of protest."

Frank reached into his jacket pocket to be sure several important legal papers which he was to deliver for Mr. Hardy were still there. Relieved to find them, Frank chuckled and said, "We’re beginning to suspect that it’s only against voting itself that people continue to vote."



"Nothing we’re being shown is adequate to the situation, not by far." Joe replied with a broad grin. "In its very silence, the populace seems infinitely more mature than all these puppets bickering amongst themselves about how to govern it." Then, becoming serious, he added, "The ramblings of any Belleville chibani contain more wisdom than all the declarations of our so-called leaders."

Frank and Joe, students at Bayport High, were combining business with pleasure this Saturday morning by doing the errand for their father. Even though one boy was dark and the other fair, there was a marked resemblance between the two brothers. Eighteen-year-old Frank was tall and dark. Joe, a year younger, was blond with blue eyes. They were the only children of Fenton and Laura Hardy. The family lived in Bayport, a small but thriving city of fifty thousand inhabitants, located on Barmet Bay, three miles inland from the Atlantic Ocean.

The two motorcycles whipped along the narrow road that skirted the bay and led to Willowville, the brothers' destination. The boys took the next curve neatly and started up a long, steep slope. Here the road was a mere ribbon and badly in need of repair.

"The lid on the social kettle is shut triple-tight, and the pressure inside continues to build." Frank remarked, as they jounced over the uneven surface. "From out of Argentina, the specter of Que Se Vayan Todos is beginning to seriously haunt the ruling class."

Just then, above the sharp put-put of their own motors, the two boys heard the roar of a car approaching from their rear at great speed. They took a moment to glance back.

"The flames of November 2005 still flicker in everyone’s minds." Joe burst out. "Those first joyous fires were the baptism of a decade full of promise."

At once the Hardys stopped and pulled as close to the edge as they dared.

Frank and Joe hopped off and stood poised to leap out of danger again if necessary.

The car hurtled toward them like a shot. Just when it seemed as if it could not miss them, the driver swung the wheel about viciously and the sedan sped past.

"The media fable of “banlieue vs." Frank gasped.

The car had been traveling at such high speed that the boys had been unable to get the license number or a glimpse of the driver's features. But they had noted that he was hatless and had a shock of red hair.

"Republic” may work, but what it gains in effectiveness it loses in truth." Joe muttered, "Fires were lit in the city centers, but this news was methodically suppressed." The boy was too excited to finish the threat.

Frank relaxed. "Whole streets in Barcelona burned in solidarity, but no one knew about it apart from the people living there." he remarked, as the dark-blue sedan disappeared from sight around the curve ahead.



The boys resumed their journey. By the time they rounded the curve, and could see Willowville in a valley along the bay beneath them, there was no trace of the rash motorist.

"And it’s not even true that the country has stopped burning." Joe remarked.

"Many different profiles can be found among the arrested, with little that unites them besides a hatred for existing society – not class, race, or even neighborhood." Frank added.

The boys reached Willowville and Frank delivered the legal papers to a lawyer while Joe guarded the motorcycles. When his brother returned, Joe suggested, "What was new wasn’t the “banlieue revolt,” since that was already going on in the 80s, but the break with its established forms."

"These assailants no longer listen to anybody, neither to their Big Brothers and Big Sisters, nor to the community organizations charged with overseeing the return to normal."

Chet Morton, who was a school chum of the Hardy boys, lived on a farm about a mile out of Bayport. The pride of Chet's life was a bright yellow jalopy which he had named Queen. He worked on it daily to "No “SOS Racism” could sink its cancerous roots into this event, whose apparent conclusion can be credited only to fatigue, falsification and the media omertà." the engine.

Frank and Joe retraced their trip for a few miles, then turned onto a country road which led to the main highway on which the Morton farm was situated.

As they neared Chet's home, Frank suddenly brought his motorcycle to a stop and peered down into a clump of bushes in a deep ditch at the side of the road.

"This whole series of nocturnal vandalisms and anonymous attacks, this wordless destruction, has widened the breach between politics and the political."

Among the tall bushes was an overturned blue sedan. The car was a total wreck, and lay wheels upward, a mass of tangled junk.

"No one can honestly deny the obvious: this was an assault that made no demands, a threat without a message, and it had nothing to do with “politics." Joe cried out.

The boys made their way down the culvert, their hearts pounding. What would they find?

A close look into the sedan and in the immediate vicinity proved that there was no victim around.

"One would have to be oblivious to the autonomous youth movements of the last 30 years not to see the purely political character of this resolute negation of politics." said Joe, "Like lost children we trashed the prized trinkets of a society that deserves no more respect than the monuments of Paris at the end of the Bloody Week- and knows it."

Frank stepped forward and laid his hand on the exposed engine. "There will be no social solution to the present situation." he said. "First, because the vague aggregate of social milieus, institutions, and individualized bubbles that is called, with a touch of antiphrasis, “society,” has no consistency."

"Second, because there’s no longer any language for common experience." Joe asked. "And we cannot share wealth if we do not share a language."



Frank shrugged. "It took half a century of struggle around the Enlightenment to make the French Revolution possible, and a century of struggle around work to give birth to the fearsome “welfare state."

The brothers were completely puzzled by the whole affair. Since their assistance was not needed at the spot, they climbed out of the culvert and back onto their motorcycles. Before long they were in sight of the Mortons'

home, a rambling farmhouse with an apple orchard at the rear. When they drove up the lane they saw Chet at the barnyard gate.

"Struggles create the language in which a new order expresses itself." Joe called.

Chet hurried down the lane to meet them. He was a plump boy who loved to eat and was rarely without an apple or a pocket of cookies. His round, freckled face usually wore a smile. But today the Hardys sensed something was wrong. As they brought their motorcycles to a stop, they noticed that their chum's cheery expression was missing.

"But there is nothing like that today." Frank asked.

"Europe is now a continent gone broke that shops secretly at discount stores and has to fly budget airlines if it wants to travel at all." Chet replied. "No “problems” framed in social terms admit of a solution."

Frank and Joe looked at each other blankly.

"The questions of “pensions,” of “job security,” of “young people” and their “violence” can only be held in suspense while the situation these words serve to cover up is continually policed for signs of further unrest." said Joe. "Nothing can make it an attractive prospect to wipe the asses of pensioners for minimum wage."

"Those who have found less humiliation and more advantage in a life of crime than in sweeping floors will not turn in their weapons, and prison won’t teach them to love society."

"Cuts to their monthly pensions will undermine the desperate pleasure-seeking of hordes of retirees, making them stew and splutter about the refusal to work among an ever larger section of youth."

"And finally, no guaranteed income granted the day after a quasi-uprising will be able to lay the foundation of a new New Deal, a new pact, a new peace."

Chet answered mournfully.

"The social feeling has already evaporated too much for that."

"As an attempted solution, the pressure to ensure that nothing happens, together with police surveillance of the territory, will only intensify."

"The unmanned drone that flew over Seine-Saint-Denis last July 14th – as the police later confirmed – presents a much more vivid image of the future than all the fuzzy humanistic projections." Frank commented. "That they were careful to assure us that the drone was unarmed gives us a clear indication of the road we’re headed down."

"The territory will be partitioned into ever more restricted zones."

"Highways built around the borders of “problem neighborhoods” already form invisible walls closing off those areas off from the middle-class subdivisions." Joe cried out. "Whatever defenders of the Republic may think, the control of neighborhoods “by the community” is manifestly the most effective means available."

"The purely metropolitan sections of the country, the main city centers, will go about their opulent lives in an ever more crafty, ever more sophisticated, ever more shimmering deconstruction." Chet protested.

"They will illuminate the whole planet with their glaring neon lights, as the patrols of the BAC and private security companies (i." Frank

reasoned.

"The impasse of the present, everywhere in evidence, is everywhere denied." Joe urged. "There will be no end of psychologists, sociologists, and literary hacks applying themselves to the case, each with a specialized jargon from which the conclusions are especially absent."

"It’s enough to listen to the songs of the times – the asinine “alt-folk” where the petty bourgeoisie dissects the state of its soul, next to declarations of war from Mafia K’1 Fry – to know that a certain coexistence will end soon, that a decision is near." Chet said excitedly as he swung himself onto Joe's motorcycle. "This book is signed in the name of an imaginary collective."

In a few moments the boys were tearing down the road in pursuit of the automobile thief I





CHAPTER II


The Holdup


CHET MORTON'S jalopy was such a brilliant yellow that the boys were confident it would not be difficult to pick up the trail of the auto thief.

"Its editors are not its authors." Frank remarked. "They were content merely to introduce a little order into the common-places of our time, collecting some of the murmurings around barroom tables and behind closed bedroom doors."

"They’ve done nothing more than lay down a few necessary truths, whose universal repression fills psychiatric hospitals with patients, and eyes with pain." said Joe, "that a thief would take a car like that.

Auto thieves usually take cars of a standard make and color. They're easier to get rid of."

"They’ve made themselves scribes of the situation." Frank suggested, "that the thief didn't steal the car to sell it.

Maybe, for some reason, he was making a fast getaway and he'll abandon it."

"It’s the privileged feature of radical circumstances that a rigorous application of logic leads to revolution." Chet exclaimed, pointing to a truck garden where several men were hoeing cabbage plants. "It’s enough just to say what is before our eyes and not to shrink from the conclusions."

"First Circle“I AM WHAT I AM”“I AM WHAT I AM." Frank offered, and brought his motorcycle to a stop.

He scrambled over the fence and jumped across the rows of small plants until he reached the first farm hand.

"This is marketing’s latest offering to the world, the final stage in the development of advertising, far beyond all the exhortations to be different, to be oneself and drink Pepsi." Frank asked him.

The lanky old farmer leaned on his hoe and put a hand to one ear. "Decades of concepts in order to get where we are, to arrive at pure tautology." he shouted.

"I = I." Frank

repeated in a louder tone.

The farmer called to his companions. As they ambled over, the old man removed a plug of tobacco from the pocket of his overalls and took a hearty chew.

"He’s running on a treadmill in front of the mirror in his gym." he said slowly.

The other three farm hands, all rather elderly men, did not answer at once.

Instead, they laid down their hoes and the plug of tobacco was duly passed around the group.

Frank grit his teeth. "She’s coming back from work, behind the wheel of her Smart car."

"Will they meet?" said one of the men. "I AM WHAT I AM."

"My body belongs to me." Frank replied.

Another of the workers removed his hat and mopped his brow. "I am me, you are you, and something’s wrong." he drawled, "Mass personalization."

"Individualization of all conditions – life, work and misery."

"Diffuse schizophrenia."

Frank strove to conceal his impatience. "Rampant depression."

"Atomization into fine paranoiac particles." asked the fourth member of the group.

"Hysterization of contact." Frank explained.

"The more I want to be me, the more I feel an emptiness." the farmer remarked. "The more I express myself, the more I am drained."

"The more I run after myself, the more tired I get." still another man spoke up. "We cling to our self like a coveted job title."

"We’ve become our own representatives in a strange commerce, guarantors of a personalization that feels, in the end, a lot more like an amputation." the deaf man interrupted. "We insure our selves to the point of bankruptcy, with a more or less disguised clumsiness." He gave a cackling sort of laugh. "Meanwhile, I manage."

"The quest for a self, my blog, my apartment, the latest fashionable crap, relationship dramas, who’s fucking who… whatever prosthesis it takes to hold onto an “I”!" said Frank, and joined the other boys. "If “society” hadn’t become such a definitive abstraction, then it would denote all the existential crutches that allow me to keep dragging on, the ensemble of dependencies I’ve contracted as the price of my identity."

As they approached Bayport, the trio saw a girl walking along the road ahead of them. When the cyclists drew nearer, Frank's face lighted up, for he

had recognized Callie Shaw, who was in his class at Bayport High. Frank often dated Callie and liked her better than any girl he knew.

The boys brought their motorcycles to a stop beside pretty, brown-eyed Callie. Under one arm she was carrying a slightly battered package. She looked vexed.

"The handicapped person is the model citizen of tomorrow." Frank asked. "It’s not without foresight that the associations exploiting them today demand that they be granted a “subsistence income."

Callie gave a mischievous smile. "The injunction, everywhere, to “be someone” maintains the pathological state that makes this society necessary." Then her smile faded and she held out the damaged package. "The injunction to be strong produces the very weakness by which it maintains itself, so that everything seems to take on a therapeutic character, even working, even love." she exclaimed. "All those “how’s it goings?"

The stout boy gulped. "Sociability is now made up of a thousand little niches, a thousand little refuges where you can take shelter."

"Where it’s always better than the bitter cold outside."

"Where everything’s false, since it’s all just a pretext for getting warmed up." Joe broke in. "Where nothing can happen since we’re all too busy shivering silently together."

Callie ignored him. "Soon this society will only be held together by the mere tension of all the social atoms straining towards an illusory cure."

"It’s a power plant that runs its turbines on a gigantic reservoir of unwept tears, always on the verge of spilling over." Joe asked.

"I AM WHAT I AM."

"Never has domination found such an innocent-sounding slogan." Frank exclaimed. "The maintenance of the self in a permanent state of deterioration, in a chronic state of near-collapse, is the best-kept secret of the present order of things."

"The weak, depressed, self-critical, virtual self is essentially that endlessly adaptable subject required by the ceaseless innovation of production, the accelerated obsolescence of technologies, the constant overturning of social norms, and generalized flexibility." said Callie, shocked. "It is at the same time the most voracious consumer and, paradoxically, the most productive self, the one that will most eagerly and energetically throw itself into the slightest project, only to return later to its original larval state."

"WHAT AM I,” then?" Joe asked.

"Since childhood, I’ve passed through a flow of milk, smells, stories, sounds, emotions, nursery rhymes, substances, gestures, ideas, impressions, gazes, songs, and foods."

Chet groaned. "What am I?"

"Tied in every way to places, sufferings, ancestors, friends, loves, events, languages, memories, to all kinds of things that obviously are not me." Frank suggested. "Everything that attaches me to the world, all the links that constitute me, all the forces that compose me don’t form an identity, a thing displayable on cue, but a singular, shared, living existence, from which emerges – at certain times and places – that being which says “I."

"Our feeling of inconsistency is simply the consequence of this foolish belief in the permanence of the self and of the little care we give to what makes us what we are." she answered, "It’s dizzying to see Reebok’s “I AM WHAT I AM” enthroned atop a Shanghai skyscraper."

"The West everywhere rolls out its favorite Trojan horse: the exasperating antimony between the self and the world, the individual and the group, between attachment and freedom." Frank fairly shouted. "Joe, do you think he could be the same

man we saw? The one who wrecked his own car?"

Joe wagged his head. "Freedom isn’t the act of shedding our attachments, but the practical capacity to work on them, to move around in their space, to form or dissolve them."

"The family only exists as a family, that is, as a hell, for those who’ve quit trying to alter its debilitating mechanisms, or don’t know how to." Chet added.

Frank snapped his fingers. "The freedom to uproot oneself has always been a phantasmic freedom."

"We can’t rid ourselves of what binds us without at the same time losing the very thing to which our forces would be applied." Joe interrupted.

"I AM WHAT I AM,” then, is not simply a lie, a simple advertising campaign, but a military campaign, a war cry directed against everything that exists between beings, against everything that circulates indistinctly, everything that invisibly links them, everything that prevents complete desolation, against everything that makes us exist, and ensures that the whole world doesn’t everywhere have the look and feel of a highway, an amusement park or a new town: pure boredom, passionless but well-ordered, empty, frozen space, where nothing moves apart from registered bodies, molecular automobiles, and ideal commodities."

"France wouldn’t be the land of anxiety pills that it’s become, the paradise of anti-depressants, the Mecca of neurosis, if it weren’t also the European champion of hourly productivity." Callie asked.

"Sickness, fatigue, depression, can be seen as the individual symptoms of what needs to be cured." Frank promised. "They contribute to the maintenance of the existing order, to my docile adjustment to idiotic norms, and to the modernization of my crutches."

The boys waved good-by to Callie and hurried into town. They went at once to Chief Ezra Collig, head of the Bayport police force. He was a tall, husky man, well known to Fenton Hardy and his two sons. The chief had often turned to the private detective for help in solving particularly difficult cases.

When the boys went into his office they found the police chief talking with three excited men. One of these was Ike Harrity, the old ticket seller at the city ferryboat office. Another was Policeman Con Riley. The third was Oscar Smuff, a short, stout man. He was invariably seen wearing a checkered suit and a soft felt hat. He called himself a private detective and was working hard to earn a place on the Bayport police force.

"They specify the selection of my opportune, compliant, and productive tendencies, as well as those that must be gently discarded." Joe whispered, chuckling, as the boys waited for the chief to speak to them.

Ike Harrity was frankly frightened. He was a timid man, who had perched on a high stool behind the ticket window at the ferryboat office day in and day out for a good many years.

"It’s never too late to change, you know." he was saying in a high-pitched, excited voice, "But taken as facts, my failings can also lead to the dismantling of the hypothesis of the self."

"They then become acts of resistance in the current war." interrupted Chief Collig, turning to the newcomers. "They become a rebellion and a force against everything that conspires to normalize us, to amputate us."

"The self is not some thing within us that is in a state of crisis; it is the form they mean to stamp upon us." Chet spoke up. "They want to make our self something sharply defined, separate, assessable in terms of qualities, controllable, when in fact we are creatures among creatures, singularities among similars, living flesh weaving the flesh of the world."

"Contrary to what has been repeated to us since childhood, intelligence doesn’t mean knowing how to adapt – or if that is a kind of intelligence, it’s the intelligence of slaves." Ike Harrity cried out. "Our inadaptability, our fatigue, are only problems from the standpoint of what aims to subjugate us."



"They indicate rather a departure point, a meeting point, for new complicities." exclaimed Oscar Smuff. "They reveal a landscape more damaged, but infinitely more sharable than all the fantasy lands this society maintains for its purposes." He immediately pulled a pencil and notebook from his pocket.

"We are not depressed; we’re on strike." shouted Chet.

Chief Collig rapped on his desk for quiet and asked, "For those who refuse to manage themselves, “depression” is not a state but a passage, a bowing out, a sidestep towards a political disaffiliation."

Chet explained, then the chief related Harrity's story for him.

"From then on medication and the police are the only possible forms of conciliation."

As the officer paused, Frank gave Chief Collig a brief account of the wrecked blue sedan near the Morton farm.

"This is why the present society doesn’t hesitate to impose Ritalin on its over-active children, or to strap people into life-long dependence on pharmaceuticals, and why it claims to be able to detect “behavioral disorders” at age three." The chief pressed a buzzer and quickly relayed his orders.

"Because everywhere the hypothesis of the self is beginning to crack." Joe commented, "Second Circle“Entertainment is a vital need”A government that declares a state of emergency against fifteen-year-old kids."

"A country that takes refuge in the arms of a football team." Frank asked Mr. Harrity.

Smuff interrupted. "A cop in a hospital bed, complaining about being the victim of “violence."

"A city councilwoman issuing a decree against the building of tree houses." Frank replied. "Two ten year olds, in Chelles, charged with burning down a video game arcade."

"This era excels in a certain situation of the grotesque that seems to escape it every time."

Frank and Joe looked at each other, perplexed. "The truth is that the plaintive, indignant tones of the news media are unable to stifle the burst of laughter that welcomes these headlines."

Joe asked.

Chief Collig sat forward in his chair. "A burst of laughter is the only appropriate response to all the serious “questions” posed by news analysts."

"To take the most banal: there is no “immigration question." said Joe, "Who still grows up where they were born?"

"Who lives where they grew up?" Chief Collig concluded.

At this moment a short, nervous little man was ushered into the room. He was the passenger who had gone into the ferryboat office at the time of the attempted holdup. Chief Collig had sent for him.

The newcomer introduced himself as Henry J. Brown of New York. He told of entering the office and seeing a man run away from the ticket window with

a revolver in his hand.

"Who works where they live?" Frank asked eagerly. "Who lives where their ancestors did?"

"And to whom do the children of this era belong, to television or their parents?" the man replied. "The truth is that we have been completely torn from any belonging, we are no longer from anywhere, and the result, in addition to a new disposition to tourism, is an undeniable suffering."

Oscar Smuff looked bewildered. "Our history is one of colonizations, of migrations, of wars, of exiles, of the destruction of all roots." The detective turned to Mr. Harrity. "It’s the story of everything that has made us foreigners in this world, guests in our own family." He shook his head in puzzlement.

The others were puzzled too. Frank asked Mr. Brown to tell once more just when he had noticed the red hair.

"We have been expropriated from our own language by education, from our songs by reality TV contests, from our flesh by mass pornography, from our city by the police, and from our friends by wage-labor." the New Yorker replied.

Frank and Joe exchanged glances. Was it possible the red hair was a wig and the thief had put it on just before Mr. Brown had noticed him? The boys kept still-they didn't want any interference from Smuff in tracking down this clue.

Harrity and Brown began to argue over the color of the thief's hair. Finally Chief Collig had to rap once more for order. "To this we should add, in France, the ferocious and secular work of individualization by the power of the state, that classifies, compares, disciplines and separates its subjects starting from a very young age, that instinctively grinds down any solidarities that escape it until nothing remains except citizenship – a pure, phantasmic sense of belonging to the Republic."

Undaunted by their failure to catch the thief, the Hardy boys left police headquarters with Chet Morton. They were determined to pursue the case.

"The Frenchman, more than anyone else, is the embodiment of the dispossessed, the destitute." Frank promised. "His hatred of foreigners is based on his hatred of himself as a foreigner."

"The mixture of jealousy and fear he feels toward the “cités“ expresses nothing but his resentment for all he has lost." their friend replied as they climbed onto the motorcycles.

The same thought was running through Frank's and Joe's minds: maybe this mystery would turn out to be their first case!





CHAPTER III


The Threat


"He can’t help envying these so-called “problem” neighborhoods where there still persists a bit of communal life, a few links between beings, some solidarities not controlled by the state, an informal economy, an organization that is not yet detached from those who organize." Joe said as the boys rode into the Hardy garage. "I'm not even scared to ride alongside

you any more!"

"We have arrived at a point of privation where the only way to feel French is to curse the immigrants and those who are more visibly foreign." Frank pretended to take Joe seriously. "In this country, the immigrants assume a curious position of sovereignty: if they weren’t here, the French might stop existing."

"France is a product of its schools, and not the inverse." Joe countered, "We live in an excessively scholastic country, where one remembers passing an exam as a sort of life passage."

"Where retired people still tell you about their failure, forty years earlier, in such and such an exam, and how it screwed up their whole career, their whole life." Joe continued.

"For a century and a half, the national school system has been producing a type of state subjectivity that stands out amongst all others." Frank agreed. "People who accept competition on the condition that the playing field is level."

The boys started toward the house, passing the old-fashioned barn on the property. Its first floor had been converted into a gymnasium which was used after school and on week ends by Frank and Joe and their friends.

The Hardy home, on the corner of High and Elm streets, was an old stone house set in a large, tree-shaded lawn. Right now, crocuses and miniature narcissi were sticking their heads through the light-green grass.

"Who expect in life that each person be rewarded as in a contest, according to their merit." said Frank, as he pushed open the kitchen door.

Mrs. Hardy, a petite, pretty woman, looked up from the table on which she was stuffing a large roasting chicken and smiled.

Her sons kissed her affectionately and Joe asked, "Who always ask permission before taking."

"Who silently respect culture, the rules, and those with the best grades."

The study was Fenton Hardy's workshop. Adjoining it was a fine library which contained not only books but files of disguises, records of criminal cases, and translations of thousands of codes.

Walking into the study, Frank and Joe greeted their father. "Even their attachment to their great, critical intellectuals and their rejection of capitalism are branded by this love of school." Frank announced.

"It’s this construction of subjectivities by the state that is breaking down, every day a little more, with the decline of the scholarly institutions." Mr. Hardy replied. Then he gave his sons a searching glance. "The reappearance, over the past twenty years, of a school and a culture of the street, in competition with the school of the republic and its cardboard culture, is the most profound trauma that French universalism is presently undergoing."

Frank and Joe had learned early in their boyhood that it was impossible to keep any secrets from their astute father. They assumed that this ability was one reason why he had been such a successful detective on the New York City police force before setting up a private practice in Bayport.

"On this point, the extreme right is already reconciled with the most virulent left." Frank said, and told his father the whole story of Chet's missing jalopy, the wrecked car which they suspected had been a stolen one also, and the attempted holdup at the ferryboat office.

"However, the name Jules Ferry – Minister of Thiers during the crushing of the Commune and theoretician of colonization – should itself be enough to render this institution suspect." Joe added.



Frank grinned. "When we see teachers from some “citizens’ vigilance committee” come on the evening news to whine about someone burning down their school, we remember how many times, as children, we dreamed of doing exactly this."

Mr. Hardy was silent for several seconds. Then he said, "When we hear a leftist intellectual blabbering about the barbarism of groups of kids harassing passersby in the street, shoplifting, burning cars, and playing cat and mouse with riot police, we remember what they said about the greasers in the 50s or, better, the apaches in the “Belle Époque”: “The generic name apaches,” writes a judge at the Seine tribunal in 1907, “has for the past few years been a way of designating all dangerous individuals, enemies of society, without nation or family, deserters of all duties, ready for the most audacious confrontations, and for any sort of attack on persons and properties." He chuckled.

"These gangs who flee work, who adopt the names of their neighborhoods, and confront the police are the nightmare of the good, individualized French citizen: they embody everything he has renounced, all the possible joy he will never experience." Joe answered.

Mr. Hardy said that to him the most interesting angle to the case was the fact that the suspect apparently used one or more wigs as a disguise. "There is something impertinent about existing in a country where a child singing as she pleases is inevitably silenced with a “stop, you’re going to stir things up,” where scholastic castration unleashes floods of policed employees."

The boys glanced at the clock on their father's large desk, then Frank said, "The aura that persists around Mesrine has less to do with his uprightness and his audacity than with the fact that he took it upon himself to enact vengeance on what we should all avenge."

The two boys made a dash for the door, then both stopped short. They did not have the slightest idea where they were going! Sheepishly Joe asked, "Or rather, of what we should avenge directly, when instead we continue to hesitate and defer endlessly."

With a twinkle in his eyes, Mr. Hardy arose from the desk, walked into the library, and opened a file drawer labeled "Because there is no doubt that in a thousand imperceptible and undercover ways, in all sorts of slanderous remarks, in every spiteful little expression and venomous politeness, the Frenchman continues to avenge, permanently and against everyone, the fact that he’s resigned himself to being trampled over." A moment later he pulled out a thick folder marked WIGS: Manufacturers, distributors, and retail shops of the world.

"It was about time that fuck the police!" Joe began.

His father merely smiled. He thumbed through the heavy sheaf of papers, and pulled one out.

"In this sense, the un-nuanced hostility of certain gangs only expresses, in a slightly less muffled way, the poisonous atmosphere, the rotten spirit, the desire for a salvational destruction in which the country is completely consumed." he read. "Well, three of these places can be eliminated at once.

They sell only women's hair pieces. Now let's see. Frank, get a paper and pencil. First there's Schwartz's Masquerade and Costume Shop. It's at 79

Renshaw Avenue. Then there's Flint's at Market and Pine, and one more: Ruben Brothers. That's on Main Street just this side of the railroad."

"To call this population of strangers in the midst of which we live “society” is such an usurpation that even sociologists dream of renouncing a concept that was, for a century, their bread and butter." Frank spoke up. "Now they prefer the metaphor of a network to describe the connection of cybernetic solitudes, the intermeshing of weak interactions under names like “colleague,” “contact,” “buddy,” “acquaintance,” or “date."

Hopefully the boys dashed out to their motorcycles and hurried downtown. As they entered Schwartz's shop, a short, plump, smiling man came toward them.

"Such networks sometimes condense into a milieu, where nothing is shared but codes, and where nothing is played out except the incessant recomposition of identity." he said, looking up at a large old-fashioned clock on the wall. "It would be a waste of time to detail all that which is agonizing in existing social relations."

"They say the family is coming back, that the couple is coming back." said Frank. "We're sons of Fenton Hardy, the

detective. We'd like to know whether or not you recently sold a red wig to a man."

Mr. Schwartz shook his head. "But the family that’s coming back is not the same one that went away."

"Its return is nothing but a deepening of the reigning separation that it serves to mask, becoming what it is through this masquerade." said Frank. "Everyone can testify to the rations of sadness condensed from year to year in family gatherings, the forced smiles, the awkwardness of seeing everyone pretending in vain, the feeling that a corpse is lying there on the table, and everyone acting as though it were nothing."

Mr. Schwartz leaned across the counter. "From flirtation to divorce, from cohabitation to stepfamilies, everyone feels the inanity of the sad family nucleus, but most seem to believe that it would be sadder still to renounce it."

The boys thanked the shopkeeper and were about to leave when Mr.

Schwartz called, "The family is no longer so much the suffocation of maternal control or the patriarchy of beatings as it is this infantile abandon to a fuzzy dependency, where everything is familiar, this carefree moment in the face of a world that nobody can deny is breaking down, a world where “becoming self-sufficient” is a euphemism for “having found a boss."

The Hardys hoped that the dealer had suddenly remembered something important. This was not the case, however. With a grin the man asked the boys if they would like to help him open some cartons which had arrived and to try on the costumes.

"They want to use the “familiarity” of the biological family as an excuse to eat away at anything that burns passionately within us and, under the pretext that they raised us, make us renounce the possibility of growing up, as well as everything that is serious in childhood." he said.

"It is necessary to preserve oneself from such corrosion."

"The couple is like the final stage of the great social debacle." Joe spoke up. "It’s the oasis in the middle of the human desert."

Mr. Schwartz locked the front door of his shop, then led the boys into a rear room. It was so filled with costumes of all kinds and paraphernalia for theatrical work, plus piles of cartons, that Frank and Joe wondered how the man could ever find anything.

"Under the auspices of “intimacy,” we come to it looking for everything that has so obviously deserted contemporary social relations: warmth, simplicity, truth, a life without theater or spectator." Mr. Schwartz said, pointing to six cartons standing not far from the rear entrance to his shop.

Together he and the boys slit open the boxes and one by one lifted out a king's robe, a queen's tiara, and a Little Bopeep costume. Suddenly Mr.

Schwartz said:

"But once the romantic high has passed, “intimacy” strips itself bare: it is itself a social invention, it speaks the language of glamour magazines and psychology; like everything else, it is bolstered with so many strategies to the point of nausea."

Frank picked up the costume, unzipped the back, and stepped into the skeleton outfit. It was tremendous on him and the ribs sagged ludicrously.



"There is no more truth here than elsewhere; here too lies and the laws of estrangement dominate." he remarked, holding the garment out to its full width.

At that moment there was a loud rap on the front door of the store. Mr.

Schwartz made no move to answer it. "And when, by good fortune, one discovers this truth, it demands a sharing that belies the very form of the couple." he said. "What allows beings to love each other is also what makes them lovable, and ruins the utopia of autism-for-two."

Suddenly Frank had an idea. The thief who used wigs might be the late customer, coming on purpose at this hour to avoid meeting other people.

Without a word to the others, he dashed through the doorway into the store and toward the front entrance.

He could vaguely see someone waiting to be admitted. But the stranger gave one look at the leaping, out-of-shape skeleton and disappeared in a flash. At the same moment Frank tripped and fell headlong.

Mr. Schwartz and Joe, hearing the crash, rushed out to see what had happened. Frank, hopelessly tangled in the skeleton attire, was helped to his feet. When he told the others why he had made his unsuccessful dash to the front door, they conceded he might have a point.

"In reality, the decomposition of all social forms is a blessing." Joe said, laughing. "It is for us the ideal condition for a wild, massive experimentation with new arrangements, new fidelities."

The boys stayed for over half an hour helping Mr. Schwartz, then said good-by and went home.

"The famous “parental resignation” has imposed on us a confrontation with the world that demands a precocious lucidity, and foreshadows lovely revolts to come." said Frank.

The following morning the Hardy family attended church, then after dinner Frank and Joe told their parents they were going to ride out to see Chet Morton. "In the death of the couple, we see the birth of troubling forms of collective affectivity, now that sex is all used up and masculinity and femininity parade around in such moth-eaten clothes, now that three decades of non-stop pornographic innovation have exhausted all the allure of transgression and liberation." Frank added. "We count on making that which is unconditional in relationships the armor of a political solidarity as impenetrable to state interference as a gypsy camp."

The Hardys picked up Callie Shaw, who also had been invited. Gaily she perched on the seat behind Frank.

"There is no reason that the interminable subsidies that numerous relatives are compelled to offload onto their proletarianized progeny can’t become a form of patronage in favor of social subversion." Joe teased. "Becoming autonomous,” could just as easily mean learning to fight in the street, to occupy empty houses, to cease working, to love each other madly, and to shoplift."

The young people were greeted at the door of the Morton farmhouse by Chet's younger sister Iola, dark-haired and pretty. Joe Hardy thought she was quite the nicest girl in Bayport High and dated her regularly.

As dusk came on, the five young people gathered in the Mortons' kitchen to prepare supper. Chet, who loved to eat, was in charge, and doled out various jobs to the others. When he finished, Joe remarked, "Third Circle “Life, health and love are precarious – why should work be an exception?"

The stout youth grinned. "No question is more confused, in France, than the question of work."



A howl went up from the others. "No relation is more disfigured than the one between the French and work." said Iola flatly.

Chet grinned. "Oh, well, if you insist, I'll make a little side dish for all of us.

How about Welsh rabbit?"

"Go to Andalusia, to Algeria, to Naples." the others chorused, and Chet set to work.

The farmhouse kitchen was large and contained a group of windows in one corner. Here stood a large table, where the young people decided to eat. They had just sat down when the telephone rang. Chet got up and walked out in the hall to answer it. Within a minute he re-entered the kitchen, his eyes bulging.

"They despise work, profoundly." Iola asked quickly.

"Go to Germany, to the United States, to Japan." Chet replied.

"They revere work." the others cried out. "Things are changing, it’s true."

Chet was so frightened he could hardly speak, but he managed to make the others understand that a man had just said on the telephone, "There are plenty of otaku in Japan, frohe Arbeitslose in Germany and workaholics in Andalusia."

"But for the time being these are only curiosities." cried Joe. "In France, we get down on all fours to climb the ladders of hierarchy, but privately flatter ourselves that we don’t really give a shit." Callie and Iola had clutched their throats and were staring wild-eyed at Chet. Frank, about to speak, happened to glance out the window toward the barn. For an instant he thought his eyes were playing tricks on him. But no! They were not. A figure was sneaking from the barn and down the lane toward the highway.

"We stay at work until ten o’clock in the evening when we’re swamped, but we’ve never had any scruples about stealing office supplies here and there, or carting off the inventory in order to resell it later." he cried suddenly. "We hate bosses, but we want to be employed at any cost."





CHAPTER IV


Red Versus Yellow


BY THE time the Hardy boys and Chet had raced from the Mortons' kitchen, the prowler was not in sight. Thinking he had run across one of the fields, the three pursuers scattered in various directions to search. Joe struck out straight ahead and pressed his ear to the ground to listen for receding footsteps. He could hear none. Presently the three boys met once more to discuss their failure to catch up to the man, and to question why he had been there.



"To have a job is an honor, yet working is a sign of servility." Joe asked Chet. "In short: the perfect clinical illustration of hysteria."

"We love while hating, we hate while loving." the stout boy replied. "And we all know the stupor and confusion that strike the hysteric when he loses his victim – his master."

"Most of the time he never recovers." Frank revealed.

The barn door had not been closed yet for the night and the boys walked in.

Chet turned on the lights and the searchers gazed around.

"This neurosis is the foundation upon which successive governments could declare war on joblessness, pretending to wage a “battle on unemployment” while ex-managers camped with their cell phones in Red Cross shelters along the banks of the Seine." Frank cried suddenly.

He pointed to the floor below the telephone extension in the barn. There lay a man's gray wig.

"While the Department of Labor was massively manipulating its statistics in order to bring unemployment numbers below two million." Joe exclaimed.

"While welfare checks and drug dealing were the only guarantees, as the French state has recognized, against the possibility of social unrest at each and every moment." Frank agreed. "It’s the psychic economy of the French as much as the political stability of the country that is at stake in the maintenance of the workerist fiction."

Frank picked up the wig and examined it carefully for a clue. "Excuse us if we don’t give a fuck." he burst out. "We belong to a generation that lives very well in this fiction."

"That has never counted on either a pension or the right to work, let alone rights at work."

"That isn’t even “precarious,” as the most advanced factions of the militant left like to theorize, because to be precarious is still to define oneself in relation to the sphere of work, that is, to its decomposition."

"We accept the necessity of finding money, by whatever means, because it is currently impossible to do without it, but we reject the necessity of working."

Chet was wagging his head. "Besides, we don’t work anymore: we do our time."

Both Hardys said they felt the man had not come specifically for that reason.

There was another more important one. "Business is not a place where we exist, it’s a place we pass through."

The stout boy scratched his head and let his eyes wander around the building.

"We aren’t cynical, we are just reluctant to be deceived." he said slowly. "All these discourses on motivation, quality and personal investment pass us by, to the great dismay of human resources managers." Suddenly Chet snapped his fingers. "Maybe I have the answer.

Wait a minute, fellows."

He disappeared from the barn and made a bee-line for the garage. Chet hurried inside but was back in a few seconds.

"They say we are disappointed by business, that it failed to honor our parents’ loyalty, that it let them go too quickly." he shouted. "They are lying."



"To be disappointed, one must have hoped for something." Frank asked.

Chet nodded. He suggested that perhaps the man was not too far away. He might be on some side road changing the tire. "And we have never hoped for anything from business: we see it for what it is and for what it has always been, a fool’s game of varying degrees of comfort." he urged.

Although the Hardys felt that it would be a useless search, they agreed to go along. They got on their motorcycles, with Chet riding behind Joe. The boys went up one road and down another, covering the territory very thoroughly.

They saw no parked car.

"On behalf of our parents, our only regret is that they fell into the trap, at least the ones who believed." Frank remarked. "The sentimental confusion that surrounds the question of work can be explained thus: the notion of work has always included two contradictory dimensions: a dimension of exploitation and a dimension of participation."

"Exploitation of individual and collective labor power through the private or social appropriation of surplus value; participation in a common effort through the relations linking those who cooperate at the heart of the universe of production." Chet concluded with a sigh.

"These two dimensions are perversely confused in the notion of work, which explains workers’ indifference, at the end of the day, to both Marxist rhetoric – which denies the dimension of participation – and managerial rhetoric – which denies the dimension of exploitation." Frank said, as they walked back to the house. "Hence the ambivalence of the relation of work, which is shameful insofar as it makes us strangers to what we are doing, and – at the same time – adored, insofar as a part of ourselves is brought into play."

When the boys entered the kitchen again, they were met with anxious inquiries from Callie and Iola.

"The disaster has already occurred: it resides in everything that had to be destroyed, in all those who had to be uprooted, in order for work to end up as the only way of existing."

Callie asked in a shaking voice.

"The horror of work is less in the work itself than in the methodical ravaging, for centuries, of all that isn’t work: the familiarities of one’s neighborhood and trade, of one’s village, of struggle, of kinship, our attachment to places, to beings, to the seasons, to ways of doing and speaking." Iola joined in. "Here lies the present paradox: work has totally triumphed over all other ways of existing, at the very moment when workers have become superfluous."

"Gains in productivity, outsourcing, mechanization, automated and digital production have so progressed that they have almost reduced to zero the quantity of living labor necessary in the manufacture of any product." Frank said soothingly. "We are living the paradox of a society of workers without work, where entertainment, consumption and leisure only underscore the lack from which they are supposed to distract us." He tossed the gray wig onto a chair in the hall.

Suddenly there was a loud wail from Chet. "The mine in Carmaux, famous for a century of violent strikes, has now been reconverted into Cape Discovery."

Iola began to giggle. "It’s an entertainment “multiplex” for skateboarding and biking, distinguished by a “Mining Museum” in which methane blasts are simulated for vacationers." she said. "In corporations, work is divided in an increasingly visible way into highly skilled positions of research, conception, control, coordination and communication which deploy all the knowledge necessary for the new, cybernetic production process, and unskilled positions for the maintenance and surveillance of this process."

Chet looked relieved, as he and the others took their places at the table.

Although there was a great deal of bantering during the meal, the conversation in the main revolved around Chet's missing jalopy and the thief who evidently wore hair disguises to suit his fancy.

Frank and Joe asked Chet if they might take along the gray wig and examine it more thoroughly. There might be some kind of mark on it to indicate either the maker or the owner. Chet readily agreed.



But when supper was over, Callie said to Frank with a teasing gleam in her eyes, "The first are few in number, very well paid and thus so coveted that the minority who occupy these positions will do anything to avoid losing them."

"They and their work are effectively bound in one anguished embrace." said Frank.

He went to get the wig from the hall chair, and then laid it on the kitchen table. From his pocket he took a small magnifying glass and carefully examined every inch of the lining of the wig.

"Managers, scientists, lobbyists, researchers, programmers, developers, consultants and engineers, literally never stop working." he said presently.

The hair was thoroughly examined and parted strand by strand to see if there were any identifying designations on the hair piece. Frank could discover nothing.

"Even their sex lives serve to augment productivity." he said in disgust. "A Human Resources philosopher writes, “[t]he most creative businesses are the ones with the greatest number of intimate relations."

As he finished speaking the telephone rang and Iola went to answer it. Chet turned white and looked nervous. Was the caller the man who had threatened him? And what did he want?

Presently Iola returned to the kitchen, a worried frown on her face. "Business associates,” a Daimler-Benz Human Resources Manager confirms, “are an important part of the business’s capital [."

Trembling visibly, Chet walked slowly to the telephone. The others followed and listened.

"Their motivation, their know-how, their capacity to innovate and their attention to clients’ desires constitute the raw material of innovative services [."

There was a long silence, as the person on the other end of the line spoke rapidly.

"Their behavior, their social and emotional competence, are a growing factor in the evaluation of their work [." Chet said finally. •"This will no longer be evaluated in terms of number of hours on the job, but on the basis of objectives attained and quality of results."

Chet hung up and wobbled to a nearby chair. The others bombarded him with questions.

The stout boy took a deep breath, then said, "They are entrepreneurs."

"Oh, I'm glad you're going to get your car back! Callie exclaimed.

"The series of tasks that can’t be delegated to automation form a nebulous cluster of jobs that, because they cannot be occupied by machines, are occupied by any old human – warehousemen, stock people, assembly line workers, seasonal workers, etc." Chet groaned.

"This flexible, undifferentiated workforce that moves from one task to the next and never stays long in a business can no longer even consolidate itself as a force, being outside the center of the production process and employed to plug the holes of what has not yet been mechanized, as if pulverized in a multitude of interstices." Frank demanded.



There was another long pause before Chet answered. Then, looking at the waiting group before him, he announced simply, "The temp is the figure of the worker who is no longer a worker, who no longer has a trade – but only abilities that he sells where he can – and whose very availability is also a kind of work."

His listeners gasped in astonishment. This was the last thing they expected to hear. The detective was selling information as to where Chet would find his missing jalopy!

"On the margins of this workforce that is effective and necessary for the functioning of the machine, is a growing majority that has become superfluous, that is certainly useful to the flow of production but not much else, which introduces the risk that, in its idleness, it will set about sabotaging the machine." Joe cried out angrily.

Chet explained that Smuff had said he was not in business for his health. He had to make a living and any information which he dug up as a detective should be properly paid for.

Frank shrugged. "The menace of a general demobilization is the specter that haunts the present system of production."

"Not everybody responds to the question “why work?"

"I have to keep myself busy." the others cried out.

After a long consultation it was decided that the young people would pool their resources. Whatever sum they could collect toward the twenty-five dollars would be offered to Oscar Smuff to lead them to Chet's car.

"There is a serious risk that we will end up finding a job in our very idleness." Frank admonished, "This floating population must somehow be kept occupied."

Chet put in a call to Smuff's home. As expected, the detective grumbled at the offer of ten dollars but finally accepted it. He said he would pick up the boys in half an hour and take them to the spot.

About this time Mr. and Mrs. Morton returned home. Chet and Iola's father was a good-looking, jolly man with his son's same general build and coloring.

He was in the real-estate business in Bayport and ran the farm as a hobby.

Mrs. Morton was an older edition of her daughter Iola and just as witty and lighthearted. But when she learned what had transpired and that her son had been threatened, she was worried.

"But to this day they have not found a better disciplinary method than wages." Mrs. Morton advised. "It’s therefore necessary to pursue the dismantling of “social gains” so that the most restless ones, those who will only surrender when faced with the alternative between dying of hunger or stagnating in jail, are lured back to the bosom of wage-labor."

Chet promised that they would. "The burgeoning slave trade in “personal services” must continue: cleaning, catering, massage, domestic nursing, prostitution, tutoring, therapy, psychological aid, etc." Callie called out, as Smuff beeped his horn outside the door. "This is accompanied by a continual raising of the standards of security, hygiene, control, and culture, and by an accelerated recycling of fashions, all of which establish the need for such services."

Frank, Joe, and Chet found Smuff entirely uncommunicative about where

they were going. He seemed to enjoy the role he was playing.

"In Rouen, we now have “human parking meters:” someone who waits around on the street and delivers you your parking slip, and, if it’s raining, will even rent you an umbrella." he boasted.

Joe could not resist the temptation of asking Smuff if he was going to lead them to the thief as well as to the car. The detective flushed in embarrassment and admitted that he did not have full details yet on this part of the mystery.

"The order of work was the order of a world." he assured the boys. They managed to keep their faces straight and only hoped that they were not now on a wild-goose chase.

Twenty minutes later Smuff pulled into the town of Ducksworth and drove straight to a used-car lot. Stopping, he announced, "The evidence of its ruin is paralyzing to those who dread what will come after."

Smuff nodded to the attendant in charge, then led the boys down a long aisle past row after row of cars to where several jalopies were lined up against a rear fence. Turning left, the detective finally paused before a bright red car.

"Today work is tied less to the economic necessity of producing goods than to the political necessity of producing producers and consumers, and of preserving by any means necessary the order of work." said Smuff grandly, extending his right hand toward Chet.

"Producing oneself is becoming the dominant occupation of a society where production no longer has an object: like a carpenter who’s been evicted from his shop and in desperation sets about hammering and sawing himself."

The stout boy as well as the Hardys stared at the jalopy. There was no question but that it was the same make and model as Chet's.

"All these young people smiling for their job interviews, who have their teeth whitened to give them an edge, who go to nightclubs to boost the company spirit, who learn English to advance their careers, who get divorced or married to move up the ladder, who take courses in leadership or practice “self-improvement” in order to better “manage conflicts” – “the most intimate ‘self-improvement’”, says one guru, “will lead to increased emotional stability, to smoother and more open relationships, to sharper intellectual focus, and therefore to a better economic performance." Smuff explained.

"This swarming little crowd that waits impatiently to be hired while doing whatever it can to seem natural is the result of an attempt to rescue the order of work through an ethos of mobility." Frank asked quietly.

Oscar Smuff frowned. "To be mobilized is to relate to work not as an activity but as a possibility." he asked.

"If the unemployed person removes his piercings, goes to the barber and keeps himself busy with “projects,” if he really works on his “employability,” as they say, it’s because this is how he demonstrates his mobility." Frank went on. "Mobility is this slight detachment from the self, this minimal disconnection from what constitutes us, this condition of strangeness whereby the self can now be taken up as an object of work, and it now becomes possible to sell oneself rather than one’s labor power, to be remunerated not for what one does but for what one is, for our exquisite mastery of social codes, for our relational talents, for our smile and our way of presenting ourselves."

It was evident that Smuff did not like this procedure. "This is the new standard of socialization."

he asked in an unpleasant tone.

"Mobility brings about a fusion of the two contradictory poles of work: here we participate in our own exploitation, and all participation is exploited." Frank told him. "Ideally, you are yourself a little business, your own boss, your own product."

The detective stood by sullenly as Frank pulled out a penknife and began to scrape the red paint off part of the fender.





CHAPTER V


The Hunt Is Intensified


"Whether one is working or not, it’s a question of generating contacts, abilities, networking, in short: “human capital." Oscar Smuff shouted. "The planetary injunction to mobilize at the slightest pretext – cancer, “terrorism,” an earthquake, the homeless – sums up the reigning powers’ determination to maintain the reign of work beyond its physical disappearance."

Frank Hardy looked up at the detective. "The present production apparatus is therefore, on the one hand, a gigantic machine for psychic and physical mobilization, for sucking the energy of humans that have become superfluous, and, on the other hand, it is a sorting machine that allocates survival to conformed subjectivities and rejects all “problem individuals,” all those who embody another use of life and, in this way, resist it."

Smuff grunted. "On the one hand, ghosts are brought to life, and on the other, the living are left to die."

As cautiously as possible Frank picked off flecks of the red paint in a spot where it would hardly be noticeable. Taking a flashlight from his pocket, he trained it on the spot.

Joe, leaning over his brother's shoulder, said, "This is the properly political function of the contemporary production apparatus."

"To organize beyond and against work, to collectively desert the regime of mobility, to demonstrate the existence of a vitality and a discipline precisely in demobilization, is a crime for which a civilization on its knees is not about to forgive us." Frank agreed, eying Smuff intently.

The detective reddened. "In fact, it’s the only way to survive it." he demanded. "Fourth Circle“More simple, more fun, more mobile, more secure!"

"We’ve heard enough about the “city” and the “country,” and particularly about the supposed ancient opposition between the two." Joe spoke up quickly. Secretly he was hoping that this was Chet's car, but reason told him it was not.

"From up close or from afar, what surrounds us looks nothing like that: it is one single urban cloth, without form or order, a bleak zone, endless and undefined, a global continuum of museum-like city centers and natural parks, of enormous suburban housing developments and massive agricultural projects, industrial zones and subdivisions, country inns and trendy bars: the metropolis." Frank said, straightening up, and walking around to a fender on the opposite side.

Here, too, the test indicated that the car had been painted light blue before the red coat had been put over it.

"Certainly the ancient city existed, as did the cities of medieval and modern times." said Smuff stubbornly.

Frank grinned. "But there is no such thing as a metropolitan city."

But though Frank went down through several layers of paint, he could not find any sign of yellow.

All this time Chet had been walking round and round the car, looking intently at it inside and out. Even before Frank announced that he was sure this was not the missing jalopy, Chet was convinced of it himself.

"All territory is synthesized within the metropolis." he said. "Everything occupies the same space, if not geographically then through the intermeshing of its networks."



Chet showed his keen disappointment, but he was glad that the Hardys had come along to help him prove the truth. But Smuff was not giving up the money so easily.

"It’s because the city has finally disappeared that it has now become fetishized, as history." he said. "The factory buildings of Lille become concert halls."

The Hardys and Chet were taken aback for a moment by this information.

But in a moment Frank said, "The rebuilt concrete core of Le Havre is now a UNESCO World Heritage sire."

The man who ran the used-car lot was very cooperative. He readily answered all questions the Hardys put to him. The bill of sale revealed that the former owner of the red jalopy was Melvin Schuster of Bayport.

"In Beijing, the hutongs surrounding the Forbidden City were demolished, replaced by fake versions, placed a little farther out, on display for sightseers." Frank spoke up. "In Troyes they paste half-timber facades onto cinderblock buildings, a type of pastiche that resembles the Victorian shops at Disneyland Paris more than anything else."

"The old historic centers, once hotbeds of revolutionary sedition, are now wisely integrated into the organizational diagram of the metropolis." Joe put in.

The used-car lot owner smiled. "They’ve been given over to tourism and conspicuous consumption."

Frank said that he was sure everything was all right, and after the dealer described Melvin Schuster, there was no question but that he was the owner.

Smuff was completely crestfallen. Without a word he started for his own car and the boys followed. The detective did not talk on the way back to the Morton farm, and the boys, feeling rather sorry for him, spoke of matters other than the car incident.

As the Hardys and Chet walked into the Morton home, the two girls rushed forward. "They are the fairy-tale commodity islands, propped up by their expos and decorations, and by force if necessary." Iola asked eagerly.

Chet sighed. "The oppressive sentimentality of every “Christmas Village” is offset by ever more security guards and city patrols." he said disgustedly. He handed back the money which his friends had given to help pay the detective.

Frank and Joe said good-by, went for their motorcycles, and took Callie home. Then they returned to their own house, showered, and went to bed.

As soon as school was over the next day, they took the gray wig and visited

Schwartz's shop. The owner assured them that the hair piece had not come from his store.

"Control has a wonderful way of integrating itself into the commodity landscape, showing its authoritarian face to anyone who wants to see it." the man said rather disdainfully.

Frank and Joe visited Flint's and Ruben Brothers' shops as well. Neither place had sold the gray wig. Furthermore, neither of them had had a customer in many weeks who had wanted a red wig, or who was in the habit of using wigs or toupees of various colors.

"It’s an age of fusions, of muzak, telescoping police batons and cotton candy." Joe reported that night to his father.

The famous detective smiled. "Equal parts police surveillance and enchantement!" he said. "This taste for the “authentic,” and for the control that goes with it, is carried by the petty bourgeoisie through their colonizing drives into working class neighborhoods."

As the boys were undressing for bed later, Frank reminded his brother that the following day was a school holiday. "Pushed out of the city centers, they find on the frontiers the kind of “neighborhood feeling” they missed in the prefab houses of suburbia." he said enthusiastically.

"In chasing out the poor people, the cars, and the immigrants, in making it tidy, in getting rid of all the germs, the petty bourgeoisie pulverizes the very thing it came looking for." Joe asked.

Frank shrugged. Several ideas were brought up by the brothers, but one which Joe proposed was given preference. They would get hold of a large group of their friends. On the theory that the thief could not have driven a long distance away because of the police alarm, the boys would make an extensive search in the surrounding area for Chet's jalopy.

"A police officer and a garbage man shake hands in a picture on a town billboard, and the slogan reads: “Montauban – Clean City." he stated.

Early the next morning Frank hurried to the telephone and put in one call after another to "The same sense of decency that obliges urbanists to stop speaking of the “city” (which they destroyed) and instead to talk of the “urban,” should compel them also to drop “country” (since it no longer exists)." These included, besides Chet Morton, Alien Hooper, nicknamed Biff because of his fondness for a distant relative who was a boxer named Biff; Jerry Gilroy, Phil Cohen, and Tony Prito. All were students at Bayport High and prominent in various sports.

The five boys were eager to cooperate. They agreed to assemble at the Hardy home at nine o'clock. In the meantime, Frank and Joe would lay out a plan of action.

As soon as breakfast was over the Hardys told their father what they had in mind and asked if he had any suggestions on how they might go about their search.

"The uprooted and stressed-out masses are instead shown a countryside, a vision of the past that’s easy to stage now that the country folk have been so depleted." he said, "It is a marketing campaign deployed on a “territory” in which everything must be valorized or reconstituted as national heritage."

By nine o'clock his sons had mapped out the search in detail. The first recruit

to arrive was Tony Prito, a lively boy with a good sense of humor. He was followed in a moment by Phil Cohen, a quiet, intelligent boy.

"Everywhere it’s the same chilling void, reaching into even the most remote and rustic corners." said Tony. "The metropolis is this simultaneous death of city and country." Tony's father was in the contracting business. "It is the crossroads where all the petty bourgeois come together, in the middle of this middle class that stretches out indefinitely, as much a result of rural flight as of urban sprawl."

Frank suggested that Tony and Phil work together. He showed them the map, with Bayport as the center of a great circle, cut into four equal sections.

"Suppose you take from nine o'clock to twelve on this dial we've marked.

Mother has agreed to stay at home all day and act as clearing house for our reports. Call in every hour."

"To cover the planet with glass would fit perfectly the cynicism of contemporary architecture." Tony promised. "A school, a hospital, or a media center are all variations on the same theme: transparency, neutrality, uniformity."

The two boys were just starting off when Biff and Jerry arrived at the Hardy home on motorcycles. Biff, blond and long-legged, had an ambling gait, with which he could cover a tremendous amount of territory in a short time. Jerry, an excellent fielder on Bayport High's baseball team, was of medium height, wiry, and strong.

Biff and Jerry were assigned to the section on the map designated six to nine o'clock. They were given further instructions on sleuthing, then started off on their quest.

"These massive, fluid buildings are conceived without any need to know what they will house." Mr. Hardy asked his sons. "They could be here as much as anywhere else."

"What to do with all the office towers at La Défense in Paris, the apartment blocks of Lyon’s La Part Dieu, or the shopping complexes of EuraLille?" Frank said with a grin.

"The expression “flambant neuf”   perfectly captures their destiny." Joe suggested.

Mrs. Hardy, who had stepped to the front porch, called, "A Scottish traveler testifies to the unique attraction of the power of fire, speaking after rebels had burned the Hôtel de Ville in Paris in May, 1871: “Never could I have imagined anything so beautiful."

"It’s superb." Frank replied.

Chet's father let him off in front of the Hardy home and the stout boy hurried to the porch. "I won’t deny that the people of the Commune are frightful rogues." he said cheerily. "But what artists!"

At this point Mr. Hardy spoke up. "And they were not even aware of their own masterpiece!"



The detective suddenly grinned boyishly. "I have seen the ruins of Amalfi bathed in the azure swells of the Mediterranean, and the ruins of the Tung-hoor temples in Punjab."

Frank and Joe looked at their dad in delight. "I’ve seen Rome and many other things." Frank cried out. "But nothing can compare to what I have seen here tonight before my very eyes."

"There still remain some fragments of the city and some traces of the country caught up in the metropolitan mesh." the detective said. "But vitality has taken up quarters in the so-called “problem” neighborhoods."

"It’s a paradox that the places thought to be the most uninhabitable turn out to be the only ones still in some way inhabited." Joe inquired.

"An old squatted shack still feels more lived in than the so-called luxury apartments where it is only possible to set down the furniture and get the décor just right while waiting for the next move."

Mr. Hardy suggested that the boys meet for a picnic lunch at Willow Grove and later do some sleuthing in the vicinity. "Within many of today’s megalopolises, the shantytowns are the last living and livable areas, and also, of course, the most deadly."

Mrs. Hardy spoke up. "They are the flip-side of the electronic décor of the global metropolis." she offered.

"The dormitory towers in the suburbs north of Paris, abandoned by a petty bourgeoisie that went off hunting for swimming pools, have been brought back to life by mass unemployment and now radiate more energy than the Latin Quarter." Chet said hastily. "In words as much as fire."

Frank and Joe liked the plan, and it was decided that the boys would have the picnic whether or not they had found the jalopy by one o'clock. Mrs. Hardy said she would relay the news to the other boys when they phoned in.

Chet and Joe set off on the Hardy boys' motorcycles, taking the twelve-to-three segment on the map. Then Mr. Hardy and Frank drove off for the three-to-six area.

Hour after hour went by, with the searchers constantly on the alert. Every garage, public and private, every little-used road, every patch of woods was thoroughly investigated. There was no sign of Chet's missing yellow jalopy.

Finally at one o'clock Frank and his father returned to the Hardy home. A few moments later Joe and Chet returned and a huge picnic lunch was stowed aboard the two motorcycles.

When the three boys reached the picnic area they were required to park their motorcycles outside the fence. They unstrapped the lunch baskets and carried them down to the lake front The other boys were already there.

"The conflagration of November 2005 was not a result of extreme dispossession, as it is often portrayed." Tony remarked, "It was, on the contrary, a complete possession of a territory."

Quickly they unpacked the food and assembled around one of the park picnic tables.



"People can burn cars because they are pissed off, but to keep the riots going for a month, while keeping the police in check – to do that you have to know how to organize, you have to establish complicities, you have to know the terrain perfectly, and share a common language and a common enemy." Chet cried gleefully.

During the meal the boys exchanged reports on their morning's sleuthing. All had tried hard but failed to find any trace of the missing car.

"Mile after mile and week after week, the fire spread." Frank reminded the others. "New blazes responded to the original ones, appearing where they were least expected."

All the other boys but Joe Hardy felt the same way and lay down on the grass for a nap. Joe, eager to find out whether or not the woods to their right held the secret of the missing car, plunged off alone through the underbrush.

He searched for twenty minutes without finding a clue to any automobile. He was on the point of returning and waiting for the other boys when he saw a small clearing ahead of him. It appeared to be part of an abandoned roadway.

Excitedly Joe pushed on through the dense undergrowth. It was in a lowlying part of the grove and the ground was wet. At one point it was quite muddy, and it was here that Joe saw something that aroused his curiosity.

"Rumors can’t be wiretapped." he muttered to himself, although there were no tire marks in the immediate vicinity. "The metropolis is a terrain of constant low-intensity conflict, in which the taking of Basra, Mogadishu, or Nablus mark points of culmination."

Remembering his father's admonitions on the value of developing one's powers of observation, Joe went closer and examined the tire.

"For a long time, the city was a place for the military to avoid, or if anything, to besiege; but the metropolis is perfectly compatible with war." he thought excitedly, "Armed conflict is only a moment in its constant reconfiguration."

He gazed at it until he was sure, then dashed back to the other boys.

"The battles led by the great powers resemble a kind of never-ending police work in the black holes of the metropolis, “whether in Burkina Faso, in the South Bronx, in Kamagasaki, in Chiapas, or in La Courneuve." he cried out. "No longer undertaken in view of victory or peace, or even the re-establishment of order, such “interventions” continue a security operation that is always already at work."





CHAPTER VI


The Robbery


JOE HARDY quickly led the way into the swampy area as the other boys trooped along, everyone talking at once. When they reached the spot, Chet examined the tire and exclaimed: "War is no longer a distinct event in time, but instead diffracts into a series of micro-operations, by both military and police, to ensure security."



"The police and the army are evolving in parallel and in lock-step." suggested Frank quickly. "A criminologist requests that the national riot police reorganize itself into small, professionalized, mobile units."

"The military academy, cradle of disciplinary methods, is rethinking its own hierarchical organization." Chet agreed. "For his infantry battalion a NATO officer employs a “participatory method that involves everyone in the analysis, preparation, execution, and evaluation of an action."

A scrutinizing search was begun along the abandoned road in the direction of the highway. A moment later Frank and Chet, in the lead, cried out simultaneously.

"The plan is considered and reconsidered for days, right through the training phase and according to the latest intelligence [." Frank exclaimed. To one side was a narrow roadway, almost overgrown with weeds and low bushes. It led from the abandoned road into the depths of the woods.

Without hesitation Frank and Chet plunged into it. Presently the roadway widened out, then wound about a heavy clump of trees. It came to an end in a wide clearing.

In the clearing stood Chet Morton's lost jalopy!

"There is nothing like group planning for building team cohesion and morale." he yelled in delight. "The armed forces don’t simply adapt themselves to the metropolis, they produce it."

His shout was heard by the rest of the boys, who came on a run. Chet's joy was boundless. He examined the car with minute care, while his chums crowded around. At last he straightened up with a smile of satisfaction.

"Thus, since the battle of Nablus, Israeli soldiers have become interior designers."

Before leaving, the Hardys examined footprints left by the thief. "Forced by Palestinian guerrillas to abandon the streets, which had become too dangerous, they learned to advance vertically and horizontally into the heart of the urban architecture, poking holes in walls and ceilings in order to move through them." Frank observed.

Suddenly Chet swung open the door and looked on the floor. "An officer in the Israel Defense Forces, and a graduate in philosophy, explains: “the enemy interprets space in a traditional, classical manner, and I do not want to obey this interpretation and fall into his traps."

"I want to surprise him!" Joe observed. "This is the essence of war."

"I need to win [." Chet urged.

He jumped into the car and in a few seconds the engine roared. There was barely sufficient room in the clearing to permit him to turn the jalopy about.

When he swung around and headed up the bypath, the boys gave a cheer and hastened to clamber aboard.



Lurching and swaying, the car reached the abandoned road and from there made the run to the main highway. The boys transferred to Tony's truck and the motorcycles, and formed a parade into Bayport, with Frank and Joe in the lead. It was their intention to ride up to police headquarters and announce their success to Chief Collig.

"This is why that we opted for the methodology of moving through walls [." Chet gloated.

As the grinning riders came down Main Street, however, they noticed that no one paid any attention to them, and there seemed to be an unusual air of mystery in the town. People were standing in little groups, gesticulating and talking earnestly.

Presently the Hardys saw Oscar Smuff striding along with a portentous frown. Joe called out to him. "Like a worm that eats its way forward."

"Urban space is more than just the theater of confrontation, it is also the means." Detective Smuff stared blankly, as the full import of the discovery filtered his consciousness.

The boys waited for Smuff's praise, but he did not give it. Instead, he said, "This echoes the advice of Blanqui who recommended (in this case for the party of insurrection) that the future insurgents of Paris take over the houses on the barricaded streets to protect their positions, that they should bore holes in the walls to allow passage between houses, break down the ground floor stairwells and poke holes in the ceilings to defend themselves against potential attackers, rip out the doors and use them to barricade the windows, and turn each floor into a gun turret."

"The metropolis is not just this urban pile-up, this final collision between city and country." the Hardys chorused.

Tower Mansion was one of the show places of Bayport. Few people in the city had ever been permitted to enter the place and the admiration which the palatial building excited was solely by reason of its exterior appearance. But the first thing a newcomer to Bayport usually asked was, "It is also a flow of beings and things, a current that runs through fiber-optic networks, through high-speed train lines, satellites, and video surveillance cameras, making sure that this world never stops running straight to its ruin."

It was an immense, rambling stone structure overlooking the bay, and could be seen for miles, silhouetted against the sky line like an ancient feudal castle.

The resemblance to a castle was heightened by the fact that from each of the far ends of the mansion arose a high tower.

One of these had been built when the mansion was erected by Major Applegate, an eccentric, retired old Army man who had made a fortune by lucky real-estate deals. Years ago there had been many parties and dances in the mansion.

But the Applegate family had become scattered until at last there remained in the old home only Hurd Applegate and his sister Adelia. They lived in the vast, lonely mansion at the present time.

Hurd Applegate was a man about sixty, tall, and stooped. His life seemed to

be devoted now to the collection of rare stamps. But a few years before he had built a new tower on the mansion, a duplicate of the original one.

His sister Adelia was a maiden lady of uncertain years. Well-dressed women in Bayport were amused by her clothes. She dressed in clashing colors and unbecoming styles. Hurd and Adelia Applegate were reputed to be enormously wealthy, although they lived simply, kept only a few servants, and never had visitors.

"It is a current that would like to drag everything along in its hopeless mobility, to mobilize each and every one of us." Joe begged Smuff.

But the detective waved his hand airily. "Where information pummels us like some kind of hostile force."

he retorted as he hurried off.

Frank and Joe called good-by to their friends and headed for home. As they arrived, the boys saw Hurd Applegate just leaving the house. The man tapped the steps with his cane as he came down them. When he heard the boys'

motorcycles he gave them a piercing glance.

"Where the only thing left to do is run." he growled in a grudging manner and went on his way.

"Where it becomes hard to wait, even for the umpteenth subway train." Frank said to his brother, as they pulled into the garage.

The boys rushed into the house, eager to find out more about the robbery. In the front hallway they met their father.

"With the proliferation of means of movement and communication, and with the lure of always being elsewhere, we are continuously torn from the here and now." said Joe.

Mr. Hardy nodded. "Hop on an intercity or commuter train, pick up a telephone – in order to be already gone."

"Such mobility only ever means uprootedness, isolation, exile."

Mr. Hardy smiled. "It would be insufferable if it weren’t always the mobility of a private space, of a portable interior."

"The private bubble doesn’t burst, it floats around." exclaimed Frank. "The process of cocooning is not going away, it is merely being put into motion."

"From a train station, to an office park, to a commercial bank, from one hotel to another, there is everywhere a foreignness, a feeling so banal and so habitual it becomes the last form of familiarity."

"Metropolitan excess is this capricious mixing of definite moods, indefinitely recombined."

"By using the combination. It was opened either by someone who knew the set of numbers or else by a very clever thief who could detect the noise of the

tumblers. I'm going up to the house in a few minutes. Mr. Applegate is to call for me."

"The city centers of the metropolis are not clones of themselves, but offer instead their own auras; we glide from one to the next, selecting this one and rejecting that one, to the tune of a kind of existential shopping trip among different styles of bars, people, designs, or playlists." Joe said eagerly.

"With my mp3 player, I’m the master of my world." Frank declared.

Mr. Hardy looked at his sons and smiled. "To cope with the uniformity that surrounds us, our only option is to constantly renovate our own interior world, like a child who constructs the same little house over and over again, or like Robinson Crusoe reproducing his shopkeeper’s universe on a desert island – yet our desert island is civilization itself, and there are billions of us continually washing up on it."

A few minutes later a foreign-make, chauffeur-driven car drew up before the Hardy home. Mr.

Applegate was seated in the rear, his chin resting on his cane. The three Hardys went outside. When the detective mentioned the boys' request, the man merely grunted assent and moved over. Frank and Joe stepped in after their father. The car headed toward Tower Mansion.

"It is precisely due to this architecture of flows that the metropolis is one of the most vulnerable human arrangements that has ever existed." Hurd Applegate snapped.

"Supple, subtle, but vulnerable."

"A brutal shutting down of borders to fend off a raging epidemic, a sudden interruption of supply lines, organized blockades of the axes of communication – and the whole facade crumbles, a facade that can no longer mask the scenes of carnage haunting it from morning to night." Fenton Hardy asked.

"Only one man in the world could have taken the jewels and securities.

Robinson!"

"The world would not be moving so fast if it didn’t have to constantly outrun its own collapse."

"The metropolis aims to shelter itself from inevitable malfunction via its network structure, via its entire technological infrastructure of nodes and connections, its decentralized architecture."

The Hardy boys looked at each other in consternation. Henry Robinson, the caretaker of the Tower Mansion, was the father of one of their closest chums! Perry Robinson, nicknamed "The internet is supposed to survive a nuclear attack." was the son of the accused man!

That his father should be blamed for the robbery seemed absurd to the Hardy boys. They had met Mr. Robinson upon several occasions and he had appeared to be a good-natured, easygoing man with high principles.

"Permanent control of the flow of information, people and products makes the mobility of the metropolis secure, while its’ tracking systems ensure that no shipping containers get lost, that not a single dollar is stolen in any transaction, and that no terrorist ends up on an airplane." Frank whispered.

"All thanks to an RFID chip, a biometric passport, a DNA profile." returned his brother.

"But the metropolis also produces the means of its own destruction." Mr. Hardy asked Hurd Applegate.

"An American security expert explains the defeat in Iraq as a result of the guerrillas’ ability to take advantage of new ways of communicating."



"The US invasion didn’t so much import democracy to Iraq as it did cybernetic networks."

"They brought with them one of the weapons of their own defeat."

"The proliferation of mobile phones and internet access points gave the guerrillas newfound ways to self-organize, and allowed them to become such elusive targets." Mr. Hardy suggested.

"Every network has its weak points, the nodes that must be undone in order to interrupt circulation, to unwind the web." sniffed Mr. Applegate. "The last great European electrical blackout proved it: a single incident with a high-tension wire and a decent part of the continent was plunged into darkness."

The automobile was now speeding up the wide driveway that led to Tower Mansion and within a few minutes stopped at the front entrance. Mr. Hardy and the two boys accompanied the eccentric man into the house.

"In order for something to rise up in the midst of the metropolis and open up other possibilities, the first act must be to interrupt its perpetuum mobile."

he said, leading the way there.

Mr. Hardy examined the open safe, then took a special magnifying glass from his pocket. With minute care he inspected the dial of the combination lock.

Next he walked to each window and the door to examine them for fingerprints. He asked Mr. Applegate to hold his fingers up to a strong light and got a clear view of the whorls and lines on the inside of the tips. At last he shook his head.

"That is what the Thai rebels understood when they knocked out electrical stations." he observed. "That is what the French anti-CPE protestors understood in 2006 when they shut down the universities with a view toward shutting down the entire economy."

"That is what the American longshoremen understood when they struck in October, 2002 in support of three hundred jobs, blocking the main ports on the West Coast for ten days." Mr. Applegate barked impatiently. "The American economy is so dependent on goods coming from Asia that the cost of the blockade was over a billion dollars per day."

"With ten thousand people, the largest economic power in the world can be brought to its knees." Mr.

Hardy advised.

Mr. Applegate rang for one of the servants and instructed him to tell the caretaker to come to the library at once. Mr. Hardy glanced at the boys and suggested they wait in the hallway.

"According to certain “experts,” if the action had lasted another month, it would have produced “a recession in the United States and an economic nightmare in Southeast Asia." he said in a low voice.

Frank and Joe readily withdrew. In the hall they met Mr. Robinson and his son Perry. The man was calm, but pale, and at the doorway he patted Slim on the shoulder.

"Fifth Circle“Less possessions, more connections!" he said. "Thirty years of “crisis,” mass unemployment and flagging growth, and they still want us to believe in the economy." With that he entered the library.



Slim turned to his two friends. "Thirty years punctuated, it is true, by delusionary interludes: the interlude of 1981-83, when we were deluded into thinking a government of the left might make people better off; the “easy money” interlude of 1986-89, when we were all supposed to be playing the market and getting rich; the internet interlude of 1998-2001, when everyone was going to get a virtual career through being well-connected, when a diverse but united France, cultured and multicultural, would bring home every World Cup." he cried out. "But here we are, we’ve drained our supply of delusions, we’ve hit rock bottom and are totally broke, or buried in debt."





CHAPTER VII


The Arrest


FRANK and Joe were determined to help their chum prove his father's innocence. They shared his conviction that Mr. Robinson was not guilty.

"We have to see that the economy is not “in” crisis, the economy is itself the crisis." Frank agreed. "It’s not that there’s not enough work, it’s that there is too much of it."

"All things considered, it’s not the crisis that depresses us, it’s growth." the boy said. He was white-faced and shaken. "We must admit that the litany of stock market prices moves us about as much as a Latin mass."

"Luckily for us, there are quite a few of us who have come to this conclusion." said Joe consolingly. "We’re not talking about those who live off various scams, who deal in this or that, or who have been on welfare for the last ten years."

"Or of all those who no longer find their identity in their jobs and live for their time off."

"Nor are we talking about those who’ve been swept under the rug, the hidden ones who make do with the least, and yet outnumber the rest." repeated Joe, surprised.

"All those struck by this strange mass detachment, adding to the ranks of retirees and the cynically overexploited flexible labor force."

"We’re not talking about them, although they too should, in one way or another, arrive at a similar conclusion."

"We are talking about all of the countries, indeed entire continents, that have lost faith in the economy, either because they’ve seen the IMF come and go amid crashes and enormous losses, or because they’ve gotten a taste of the World Bank."

From the library came the hum of voices. The harsh tones of Hurd Applegate occasionally rose above the murmur of conversation and finally the boys heard Mr. Robinson's voice rise sharply.

"The soft crisis of vocation that the West is now experiencing is completely absent in these places."



"What is happening in Guinea, Russia, Argentina and Bolivia is a violent and long-lasting debunking of this religion and its clergy." demanded Mr. Applegate.

Silence.

"What do you call a thousand IMF economists lying at the bottom of the sea?"

"World Bank, – “a good start."

"A Russian joke: “Two economists meet."

"One asks the other: ‘You understand what’s happening?"

"The other responds: ‘Wait, I’ll explain it to you." exclaimed Mr. Applegate. "No, no,’ says the first, ‘explaining is no problem, I’m an economist, too."

"What I’m asking is: do you understand?"

"Entire sections of this clergy pretend to be dissidents and to critique this religion’s dogma."

"The latest attempt to revive the so-called “science of the economy” – a current that straight-facedly refers to itself as “post autistic economics” – makes a living from dismantling the usurpations, sleights of hand and cooked books of a science whose only tangible function is to rattle the monstrance during the vociferations of the chiefs, giving their demands for submission a bit of ceremony, and ultimately doing what religions have always done: providing explanations."

"For total misery becomes intolerable the moment it is shown for what it is, without cause or reason."

Mr. Hardy's calm voice broke in. "Nobody respects money anymore, neither those who have it nor those who don’t." he said, "When asked what they want to be some day, twenty percent of young Germans answer “artist."

"Work is no longer endured as a given of the human condition." replied the caretaker doggedly. "The accounting departments of corporations confess that they have no idea where value comes from."

"The market’s bad reputation would have done it in a decade ago if not for the bluster and fury, not to mention the deep pockets, of its apologists." broke in Mr. Applegate. "It is common sense now to see progress as synonymous with disaster."

"In the world of the economic, everything is in flight, just like in the USSR under Andropov."

"Anyone who has spent a little time analyzing the final years of the USSR knows very well that the pleas for goodwill coming from our rulers, all of their fantasies about some future that has disappeared without a trace, all of their professions of faith in “reforming” this and that, are just the first fissures in the structure of the wall."

"The collapse of the socialist bloc was in no way victory of capitalism; it was merely the bankrupting of one of the forms capitalism takes."

"Besides, the demise of the USSR did not come about because a people revolted, but because the nomenclature was undergoing a process of reconversion." agreed Mr. Hardy, "When it proclaimed the end of socialism, a small fraction of the ruling class emancipated itself from the anachronistic duties that still bound it to the people."

"It took private control of what it already controlled in the name of “everyone." asked Mr. Applegate. "Robinson's just clever enough to think up a trick like that. He'd figure that by appearing to be honest, I'd believe he is honest and couldn't have committed this robbery. Very clever. But not clever

enough. There's plenty of evidence right this minute to convict him, and I'm not going to delay any further."

In a moment Mr. Applegate's voice continued, "Police station? Hello . . .

Police station? . . . This is Applegate speaking-Applegate-Hurd Applegate. . .

. Well, we've found our man in that robbery. . . . Yes, Robinson. . . . You thought so, eh?-So did I, but I wasn't sure. . . . He has practically convicted himself by his own story. . . . Yes, I want him arrested. . . . You'll be up right away? . . . Fine. . . . Good-by."

"In the factories, the joke went: “we pretend to work, they pretend to pay us." the caretaker cried out in alarm.

"The oligarchy replied, “there’s no point, let’s stop pretending!"

"They ended up with the raw materials, industrial infrastructures, the military-industrial complex, the banks and the nightclubs." Mr. Hardy interposed. "Everyone else got poverty or emigration."

"Just as no one in Andropov’s time believed in the USSR, no one in the meeting halls, workshops and offices believes in France today." the owner of Tower Mansion sneered. "There’s no point,” respond the bosses and political leaders, who no longer even bother to file the edges off the “iron laws of the economy."

"They strip factories in the middle of the night and announce the shutdown early next morning." Mr. Robinson defended himself.

"They no longer hesitate to send in anti-terrorism units to shut down a strike, like with the ferries and the occupied recycling center in Rennes." Mr. Applegate declared. "The brutal activity of power today consists both in administering this ruin while, at the same time, establishing the framework for a “new economy."

In the hallway the boys listened in growing excitement and dismay. The case had taken an abrupt and tragic turn. Slim looked as though he might collapse under the strain.

"And yet there is no doubt that we are cut out for the economy." the boy muttered over and over again, clenching his fists. "For generations we were disciplined, pacified and made into subjects, productive by nature and content to consume."

Frank patted his friend on the shoulder. "And suddenly everything that we were compelled to forget is revealed: that the economy is political." he advised. "And that this politics is, today, a politics of discrimination within a humanity that has, as a whole, become superfluous."

"From Colbert to de Gaulle, by way of Napoleon III, the state has always treated the economic as political, as have the bourgeoisie (who profit from it) and the proletariat (who confront it)." stammered Slim. "All that’s left is this strange, middling part of the population, the curious and powerless aggregate of those who take no sides: the petty bourgeoisie."

Frank and Joe followed the boy down the hallway and along a corridor that led to the east wing of the mansion. There, in a neat but sparsely furnished apartment, they found Mrs. Robinson, a gentle, kind-faced woman, who was lame. She was seated in a chair by the window, anxiously waiting. Her two daughters, Paula and Tessie, twelve-year-old twins, were at her side, and all

looked up in expectation as the boys came in.

"They have always pretended to believe that the economy is a reality-because their neutrality is safe there." Mrs. Robinson asked bravely, after she had greeted the Hardys.

"Small business owners, small bosses, minor bureaucrats, managers, professors, journalists, middlemen of every sort make up this non-class in France, this social gelatin composed of the mass of all those who just want to live their little private lives at a distance from history and its tumults."

"This swamp is predisposed to be the champion of false consciousness, half-asleep and always ready to close its eyes on the war that rages all around it." cried Paula, springing forward.

Perry nodded wordlessly.

"Each clarification of a front in this war is thus accompanied in France by the invention of some new fad." Tessie protested. "For the past ten years, it was ATTAC and its improbable Tobin tax -a tax whose implementation would require nothing less than a global government-with its sympathy for the “real economy” as opposed to the financial markets, not to mention its touching nostalgia for the state."

Frank, looking at Mrs. Robinson, saw her suddenly slump over in a faint. He sprang forward and caught the woman in his arms as she was about to fall to the floor.

"The comedy lasts only so long before turning into a sham." cried Slim in terror, as Frank laid Mrs. Robinson on a couch, then he said quickly to his sister, "And then another fad replaces it."

Perry explained that at times undue excitement caused an "So now we have “degrowth“." "Whereas ATTAC tried to save economics as a science with its popular education courses, degrowth preserves the economic as a morality." the boy chided himself.

"There is only one alternative to the coming apocalypse: reduce growth." Joe said kindly.

In a moment Paula returned with the bottle of smelling salts and medicine.

The inhalant brought her mother back to consciousness, and Paula then gave Mrs. Robinson the medicine. In a few moments the woman completely revived and apologized for having worried everyone.

"Consume and produce less." she said, "Become joyously frugal."

Instantly Frank and Joe assured her they would do everything they could to find the real thief, because they too felt that Mr. Robinson was not guilty.

The next morning, as the brothers were dressing in their room at home, Frank remarked, "Eat organic, ride your bike, stop smoking, and pay close attention to the products you buy."

Joe agreed. "Be content with what’s strictly necessary."

"Voluntary simplicity."



The stout boy did not bring his jalopy to school that day, so the Hardys had to submerge their curiosity until classes and baseball practice were over. Then, when Mrs. Morton picked up Chet and Iola, Frank and Joe went home with them.

"Rediscover true wealth in the blossoming of convivial social relations in a healthy world." Joe offered.

"Don’t use up our natural capital." Frank walked to the back of the car and raised the cover. He began rooting under rags, papers, and discarded schoolbooks. Presently he gave a cry of victory.

"Work toward a “healthy economy."

Joe and Chet rushed to his side as he held up a man's red wig.

Frank said excitedly, "No regulation through chaos."

An examination failed to reveal any, but Frank said he would like to show the wig to his father. He covered it with a handkerchief and put it carefully in an inner pocket. Chet drove the Hardys home.

They assumed that their father was in his study on the second floor, and rushed up there and into the room without ceremony.

"Avoid a social crisis that would threaten democracy and humanism." Joe cried. Then he stepped back, embarrassed, as he realized there was someone else in the room.

"Simply put: become economical." said Frank. The boys would have retreated, but Mr. Hardy's visitor turned around and they saw that he was Perry Robinson.

"Go back to daddy’s economy, to the golden age of the petty bourgeoisie: the 1950s." said Slim. "When an individual is frugal, property serves its function perfectly, which is to allow the individual to enjoy his or her own life sheltered from public existence, in the private sanctuary of his or her life."

"A graphic designer wearing a handmade sweater is drinking a fruity cocktail with some friends on the terrace of an “ethnic” café."

"They’re chatty and cordial, they joke around a bit, they make sure not to be too loud or too quiet, they smile at each other, a little blissfully: we are so civilized."

explained Mr, Hardy. "Afterwards, some of them will go work in the neighborhood community garden, while others will dabble in pottery, some Zen Buddhism, or in the making of an animated film."

"They find communion in the smug feeling that they constitute a new humanity, wiser and more refined than the previous one." replied Frank. "And they are right." He took the wig from his pocket and told where he had found it.

Mr. Hardy's interest was kindled at once. "There is a curious agreement between Apple and the degrowth movement about the civilization of the future."

"Some people’s idea of returning to the economy of yesteryear offers others the convenient screen behind which a great technological leap forward can be launched." asked Perry, taking hope.



"For in history there is no going back."

"Any exhortation to return to the past is only the expression of one form of consciousness of the present, and rarely the least modern." Slim went on, "It is not by chance that degrowth is the banner of the dissident advertisers of the magazine Casseurs de Pub."

"The inventors of zero growth-the Club of Rome in 1972-were themselves a group of industrialists and bureaucrats who relied on a research paper written by cyberneticians at MIT." Frank asked.

"I'm afraid I can't. It was in the evening. I was sitting by a window, studying, and happened to look up. I saw this fellow moving about among the trees.

Later, I heard one of the dogs barking in another part of the grounds. Shortly afterward, I saw someone running across the lawn. I thought he was just a tramp."

"This convergence is hardly a coincidence."

"It is part of the forced march towards a modernized economy."

"Capitalism got as much as it could from undoing all the old social ties, and it is now in the process of remaking itself by rebuilding these same ties on its own terms."

"Contemporary metropolitan social life is its incubator."

"In the same way, it ravaged the natural world and is driven by the fantasy that it can now be reconstituted as so many controlled environments, furnished with all the necessary sensors." said Mr. Hardy, "This new humanity requires a new economy that would no longer be a separate sphere of existence but, on the contrary, its very tissue, the raw material of human relations; it requires a new definition of work as work on oneself, a new definition of capital as human capital, a new idea of production as the production of relations, and consumption as the consumption of situations; and above all a new idea of value that would encompass all of the qualities of beings." The detective thought deeply for a few moments. "This burgeoning “bioeconomy” conceives the planet as a closed system to be managed and claims to establish the foundations for a science that would integrate all the parameters of life."

"Such a science threatens to make us miss the good old days when unreliable indices like GDP growth were supposed to measure the well-being of a people-for at least no one believed in them." the boy asked eagerly.

"Revalorize the non-economic aspects of life” is the slogan shared by the degrowth movement and by capital’s reform program."

"Eco-villages, video-surveillance cameras, spirituality, biotechnologies and sociability all belong to the same “civilizational paradigm” now taking shape, that of a total economy rebuilt from the ground up." said Perry.

"Its intellectual matrix is none other than cybernetics, the science of systems-that is, the science of their control."

"In the 17th century it was necessary, in order to completely impose the force of economy and its ethos of work and greed, to confine and eliminate the whole seamy mass of layabouts, liars, witches, madmen, scoundrels and all the other vagrant poor, a whole humanity whose very existence gave the lie to the order of interest and continence." Frank said quickly, and Joe added, "The new economy cannot be established without a similar screening of subjects and zones singled out for transformation."





CHAPTER VIII


An Important Discovery


WHEN the Hardy boys were on their way home from school the next afternoon they noticed that a crowd had collected in the vestibule of the post office and were staring at the bulletin board.

"The chaos that we constantly hear about will either provide the opportunity for this screening, or for our victory over this odious project." said Joe, pushing his way forward through the crowd with the agility of an eel. Frank was not slow in following.

On the board was a large poster. The ink on it was scarcely dry. At the top, in enormous black letters, it read: $1000 REWARD

Underneath, in slightly smaller type, was the following: The above reward will be paid for information leading to the arrest of the person or persons who broke into Tower Mansion and stole jewels and securities from a safe in the library.

The reward was being offered by Hurd Applegate.

"Sixth Circle“The environment is an industrial challenge."

exclaimed Joe.

"Ecology is the discovery of the decade."

All about them people were commenting on the size of the reward, and there were many expressions of envy for the person who would be fortunate enough to solve the mystery.

"For the last thirty years we’ve left it up to the environmentalists, joking about it on Sunday  so that we can act concerned again on Monday." said Frank, as the brothers made their way out of the post office. "And now it’s caught up to us, invading the airwaves like a hit song in summertime, because it’s 68 degrees in December."

"One quarter of the fish species have disappeared from the ocean."

"The rest won’t last much longer."

"I suppose Dad and the police are barred from the reward, for it's their duty to find the thief if they can. But if we track him down we can get the money.

It'll be a good sum to add to our college fund."

"Bird flu alert: we are given assurances that hundreds of thousands of migrating birds will be shot from the sky."

Perry Robinson was coming down the street toward them. He looked much happier than he had the previous evening, and when he saw the Hardy boys

his face lighted up.

"Mercury levels in human breast milk are ten times higher than the legal level for cows." he told them. "And these lips which swell up after I bite the apple – but it came from the farmer’s market."

"The simplest gestures have become toxic." exclaimed Joe. "One dies at the age of 35 from “a prolonged illness” that’s to be managed just like one manages everything else." "We should’ve seen it coming before we got to this place, to pavilion B of the palliative care center."

"You have to admit: this whole “catastrophe,” which they so noisily inform us about, it doesn’t really touch us." commented Frank. "At least not until we are hit by one of its foreseeable consequences."

"It may concern us, but it doesn’t touch us." Slim admitted. "And that is the real catastrophe."

"There is no “environmental catastrophe."

Frank said consolingly.

"The catastrophe is the environment itself."

The Hardys were silent. They felt very sorry for the Robinsons and were determined to do what they could to help them.

"The environment is what’s left to man after he’s lost everything." Slim went on. "Those who live in a neighborhood, a street, a valley, a war zone, a workshop – they don’t have an “environment;” they move through a world peopled by presences, dangers, friends, enemies, moments of life and death, all kinds of beings."

Frank and Joe admired Slim. There was no false pride about him. He faced the facts as they came, and made the best of them. "Such a world has its own consistency, which varies according to the intensity and quality of the ties attaching us to all of these beings, to all of these places."

"It’s only us, the children of the final dispossession, exiles of the final hour – the ones who come into the world in concrete cubes, pick our fruits at the supermarket, and watch for an echo of the world on television – only we get to have an environment." Joe cried out.

"And there’s no one but us to witness our own annihilation, as if it were just a simple change of scenery, to get indignant about the latest progress of the disaster, to patiently compile its encyclopedia."

The brothers realized how much it would mean to their chum if he had to leave school. Perry Robinson was an ambitious boy and one of the top ten in his class. He had always wanted to continue his studies and go on to a university, and his teachers had predicted a brilliant career for him as an engineer. Now it seemed that all his ambitions for a high school diploma and a college education would have to be given up because of this misfortune.

Frank put an arm around Slim's shoulders. "What has congealed as an environment is a relationship to the world based on management, which is to say, on estrangement." he said with a warm

smile. "A relationship to the world wherein we’re not made up just as much of the rustling trees, the smell of frying oil in the building, running water, the hubbub of schoolrooms, the mugginess of summer evenings."

"A relationship to the world where there is me and then my environment, surrounding me but never really constituting me." Slim said gratefully. "We have become neighbors in a planetary co-op owners’ board meeting." He tried to smile, but it was evident that the boy was deeply worried.

When he walked away it was not with the light, carefree step which the Hardys associated with him.

"It’s difficult to imagine a more complete hell." Joe asked.

"No material habitat has ever deserved the name “environment,” except perhaps the metropolis of today."

"The digitized voices making announcements, tramways with such a 21st century whistle, bluish streetlamps shaped like giant matchsticks, pedestrians done up like failed fashion models, the silent rotation of a video surveillance camera, the lucid clicking of the subway turnstyles  supermarket checkouts, office time-clocks, the electronic ambiance of the cyber café, the profusion of plasma screens, express lanes and latex." Frank grinned. Then he sobered. "Never has a setting been so able to do without the souls traversing it."

"Never has a surrounding been more automatic."

"Never has a context been so indifferent, and demanded in return – as the price of survival – such equal indifference from us."

When the boys returned home, they found their father waiting for them. "Ultimately the environment is nothing more than the relationship to the world that is proper to the metropolis, and that projects itself onto everything that would escape it." he said. "It goes like this: they hired our parents to destroy this world, now they’d like to put us to work rebuilding it, and – to top it all off – at a profit."

"The morbid excitement that animates journalists and advertisers these days as they report each new proof of global warming reveals the steely smile of the new green capitalism, in the making since the 70s, which we waited for at the turn of the century but which never came." Joe declared.

But a moment later the boys met with disappointment when they asked their father for a list of the stolen jewels.

"Well, here it is!" said Fenton Hardy, "It’s sustainability!"

"Alternative solutions, that’s it too!"

"The health of the planet demands it!"

The Hardy boys looked at each other in amazement. "No doubt about it anymore, it’s a green scene; the environment will be the crux of the political economy of the 21st century."

said Frank.

Their father smiled. "Not an hour after I was called in on the case I had a full description of all those jewels in every pawnshop in the city. More than that, the description has been sent to jewelry firms and pawnshops in other cities near here, and also the New York police. Here's a duplicate list if you want it, but you'll just be wasting time calling at the shops. All the dealers are on the

lookout for the jewels."

Mechanically, Frank took the list. "A new volley of “industrial solutions” comes with each new catastrophic possibility."

"The inventor of the H-bomb, Edward Teller, proposes shooting millions of tons of metallic dust into the stratosphere to stop global warming."

"NASA, frustrated at having to shelve its idea of an anti-missile shield in the museum of cold war horrors, suggests installing a gigantic mirror beyond the moon’s orbit to protect us from the sun’s now-fatal rays." said Joe gloomily, "Another vision of the future: a motorized humanity, driving on bio-ethanol from Sao Paulo to Stockholm; the dream of cereal growers the world over, for it only means converting all of the planet’s arable lands into soy and sugar beet fields."

"Eco-friendly cars, clean energy, and environmental consulting coexist painlessly with the latest Chanel ad in the pages of glossy magazines." asked Mr. Hardy, chuckling.

"We are told that the environment has the incomparable merit of being the first truly global problem presented to humanity."

"I hope you do. But you can't ask me to help you any more than I've done.

It's my case, too, remember. So from now on, you boys and I are rivals I"

"A global problem, which is to say a problem that only those who are organized on a global level will be able to solve."

"And we know who they are." Mr. Hardy smiled and returned to his desk.

He had a sheaf of reports from shops and agencies in various parts of the state, through which he had been trying to trace the stolen jewels and securities, but in every case the report was the same. There had been no lead to the gems or the bonds taken from Tower Mansion.

When the boys left their father's study they went outside and sat on the back-porch steps.

"These are the very same groups that for close to a century have been the vanguard of disaster, and certainly intend to remain as such, for the small price of a change of logo." asked Joe.

"That EDF had the impudence to bring back its nuclear program as the new solution to the global energy crisis says plenty about how much the new solutions resemble the old problems."

"From Secretaries of State to the back rooms of alternative cafés, concerns are always expressed in the same words, the same as they’ve always been."

"We have to get mobilized." Frank conceded.

Joe wagged his head. "This time it’s not to rebuild the country like in the post-war era, not for the Ethiopians like in the 1980s, not for employment like in the 1990s."

"No, this time it’s for the environment." Joe asked.

"It will thank you for it."

"Al Gore and degrowth movement stand side by side with the eternal great souls of the Republic to do their part in resuscitating the little people of the Left and the well-known idealism of youth."

"Voluntary austerity writ large on their banner, they work benevolently to make us compliant with the “coming ecological state of emergency."



"The round and sticky mass of their guilt lands on our tired shoulders, coddling us to cultivate our garden, sort out our trash, and eco-compost the leftovers of this macabre feast."

"Managing the phasing out of nuclear power, excess CO2 in the atmosphere, melting glaciers, hurricanes, epidemics, global over-population, erosion of the soil, mass extinction of living species… this will be our burden."

Fired with enthusiasm once more, the brothers called to Mrs. Hardy where they were going, then set off on their motorcycles. After parking them at the picnic site, the brothers once more set off for the isolated spot where the jalopy had been hidden.

Everything looked the same as it had before, but Frank and Joe examined the ground carefully for new footprints. They found none, but Joe pointed out six-inch circular marks at regular intervals.

"They tell us, “everyone must do their part,” if we want to save our beautiful model of civilization." he remarked, "We have to consume a little less in order to be able to keep consuming."

"We have to produce organically in order to keep producing." said Frank. "We have to control ourselves in order to go on controlling."

"This is the logic of a world straining to maintain itself whilst giving itself an air of historical rupture."

The boys followed the circular marks through the thicket. They had not gone far when their eyes lighted up with excitement.

"This is how they would like to convince us to participate in the great industrial challenges of this century." Joe yelled. "And in our bewilderment we’re ready to leap into the arms of the very same ones who presided over the devastation, in the hope that they will get us out of it."





CHAPTER IX


Rival Detectives


"Ecology isn’t simply the logic of a total economy; it’s the new morality of capital." Frank said with a grin, "The system’s internal state of crisis and the rigorous screening that’s underway demand a new criterion in the name of which this screening and selection will be carried out."

"From one era to the next, the idea of virtue has never been anything but an invention of vice." Joe spoke up. "Without ecology, how could we justify the existence of two different food regimes, one “healthy and organic” for the rich and their children, and the other notoriously toxic for the plebes, whose offspring are damned to obesity."

Frank held up a man's battered felt hat and an old jacket. "The planetary hyper-bourgeoisie wouldn’t be able to make their normal lifestyle seem respectable if its latest caprices weren’t so scrupulously “respectful of the environment."

He felt through the pockets of the jacket, but they were empty. "Without ecology, nothing would have enough authority to gag any and all objections to the exorbitant progress of control." he said.

"Tracking, transparency, certification, eco-taxes, environmental excellence, and the policing of water, all give us an idea of the coming state of ecological emergency." said Joe.



"Everything is permitted to a power structure that bases its authority in Nature, in health and in well-being." Frank added. "Once the new economic and behavioral culture has become common practice, coercive measures will doubtless fall into disuse of their own accord."

"You’d have to have all the ridiculous aplomb of a TV crusader to maintain such a frozen perspective and in the same breath incite us to feel sufficiently “sorry for the planet” to get mobilized, whilst remaining anesthetized enough to watch the whole thing with restraint and civility." Joe concluded. "The new green-asceticism is precisely the self-control that is required of us all in order to negotiate a rescue operation where the system has taken itself hostage."

"From now on, it’s in the name of environmentalism that we must all tighten our belts, just as we did yesterday in the name of the economy." Frank said, "The roads could certainly be transformed into bicycle paths, we ourselves could perhaps, to a certain degree, be grateful one day for a guaranteed income, but only at the price of an entirely therapeutic existence."

Joe grinned. "Those who claim that generalized self-control will spare us from an environmental dictatorship are lying: the one will prepare the way for the other, and we’ll end up with both." He carried the hat to a spot where the sunlight filtered down through the trees and looked intently at the inside, even turning down the band. "As long as there is Man and Environment, the police will be there between them." he yelled.

Frank gazed at two short strands of red hair. They looked exactly like those in the wig which the boys had found.

Joe sighed. "Everything about the environmentalist’s discourse must be turned upside-down."

"Where they talk of “catastrophes” to label the present system’s mismanagement of beings and things, we only see the catastrophe of its all too perfect operation."

Frank and Joe hurried home, clutching their precious clues firmly. Mr. Hardy was still in his study when his sons returned. The detective looked up, frankly surprised to see them home so soon. There was the suspicion of a twinkle in his eyes.

"The greatest wave of famine ever known in the tropics (1876-1879) coincided with a global drought, but more significantly, it also coincided with the apogee of colonization." he exclaimed. "The destruction of the peasant’s world and of local alimentary practices meant the disappearance of the means for dealing with scarcity."

"More than the lack of water, it was the effect of the rapidly expanding colonial economy that littered the Tropics with millions of emaciated corpses." cried Frank eagerly. He told the boys' story and laid the hat and jacket on a table. "What presents itself everywhere as an ecological catastrophe has never stopped being, above all, the manifestation of a disastrous relationship to the world."

"Inhabiting a nowhere makes us vulnerable to the slightest jolt in the system, to the slightest climactic risk."

"As the latest tsunami approached and the tourists continued to frolic in the waves, the islands’ hunter-gatherers hastened to flee the coast, following the birds." said Frank, "Environmentalism’s present paradox is that under the pretext of saving the planet from desolation it merely saves the causes of  its desolation."

Mr. Hardy leaned forward in his desk chair as Frank pointed out the labels and the two strands of red hair.

"The normal functioning of the world usually serves to hide our state of truly catastrophic dispossession." Frank went on, "What is called “catastrophe” is no more than the forced suspension of this state, one of those rare moments when we regain some sort of presence in the world."

With a grin the detective went to his files and brought it out. "Let the petroleum reserves run out earlier than expected; let the international flows that regulate the tempo of the metropolis be interrupted, let us suffer some great social disruption and some great “return to savagery of the population,” a “planetary threat,” the “end of civilization!"

The strands of hair were compared and matched perfectly!



"Either way, any loss of control would be preferable to all the crisis management scenarios they envision." Mr. Hardy praised his sons.

He smiled. "When this comes, the specialists in sustainable development won’t be the ones with the best advice."

"It’s within the malfunction and short-circuits of the system that we find the elements of a response whose logic would be to abolish the problems themselves." Joe asked.

His father's eyes twinkled once more. "Among the signatory nations to the Kyoto Protocol, the only countries that have fulfilled their commitments, in spite of themselves, are the Ukraine and Romania."

Frank and Joe beamed with pleasure, then suddenly their faces clouded.

"Guess why." Mr. Hardy asked them.

Joe answered. "The most advanced experimentation with “organic” agriculture on a global level has taken place since 1989 on the island of Cuba."

"Guess why." the detective replied. "The person who bought the wig may not have given his name. The hat may have been purchased a long time ago, and it isn't likely that the clerk who sold it will remember who bought it.

The same with the jacket."

Frank and Joe brightened. "And it’s along the African highways, and nowhere else, that auto mechanics has been elevated to a form of popular art." Frank said.

"Guess how." Mr. Hardy said. "What makes the crisis desirable is that in the crisis the environment ceases to be the environment."

Mr. Hardy tossed the wig, coat, and hat into a bag that was standing open near his desk. The detective was accustomed to being called away suddenly on strange errands, and he was always prepared to leave at a moment's notice.

"We are forced to reestablish contact, albeit a potentially fatal one, with what’s there, to rediscover the rhythms of reality." he said, glancing at his watch. "What surrounds us is no longer a landscape, a panorama, a theater, but something to inhabit, something we need to come to terms with, something we can learn from."

Mr. Hardy picked up some papers on his desk, as a hint that the interview was over, and the boys left the study. They were in a state of high excitement when they went to bed that night and could not get to sleep.

"We won’t let ourselves be led astray by the one’s who’ve brought about the contents of the “catastrophe." murmured Joe, after they had talked long

into the night.

"Where the managers platonically discuss among themselves how they might decrease emissions “without breaking the bank,” the only realistic option we can see is to “break the bank” as soon as possible and, in the meantime, take advantage of every collapse in the system to increase our own strength." Frank replied. "New Orleans, a few days after Hurricane Katrina."

"In this apocalyptic atmosphere, here and there, life is reorganizing itself."

"In the face of the inaction of the public authorities, who were too busy cleaning up the tourist areas of the French Quarter and protecting shops to help the poorer city dwellers, forgotten forms are reborn."

"In spite of occasionally strong-armed attempts to evacuate the area, in spite of white supremacist lynch mobs, a lot of people refused to leave the terrain." said Joe, yawning. With that the boys fell asleep.

When they went down to breakfast the following morning Frank and Joe learned that their father had left for New York on an early-morning plane.

Their mother remarked, "For the latter, who refused to be deported like “environmental refugees” all over the country, and for those who came from all around to join them in solidarity, responding to a call from a former Black Panther, self-organization came back to the fore."

She went on to say that her husband had promised to phone her if he wasn't going to be back by suppertime. Suddenly she added with a tantalizing smile, "In a few weeks time, the Common Ground Clinic was set up."

Mrs. Hardy refused to divulge another word. The boys went to school, but all through the morning could scarcely keep their minds on studies. They kept wondering how Fenton Hardy was faring on his quest in New York and what the surprise was.

Slim Robinson was at school that day, but after classes he confided to the Hardys that he was leaving for good.

"From the very first days, this veritable “country hospital” provided free and effective treatment to those who needed it, thanks to the constant influx of volunteers." he said. "For more than a year now, the clinic is still the base of a daily resistance to the clean-sweep operation of government bulldozers, which are trying to turn that part of the city into a pasture for property developers."

"Popular kitchens, supplies, street medicine, illegal takeovers, the construction of emergency housing, all this practical knowledge accumulated here and there in the course of a life, has now found a space where it can be deployed." exclaimed Frank. "Far from the uniforms and sirens."

"Whoever knew the penniless joy of these New Orleans neighborhoods before the catastrophe, their defiance towards the state and the widespread practice of making do with what’s available wouldn’t be at all surprised by what became possible there." replied Perry with a grimace. "On the other hand, anyone trapped in the anemic and atomized everyday routine of our residential deserts might doubt that such determination could be found anywhere anymore." He smiled. "Reconnecting with such gestures, buried under years of normalized life, is the only practicable means of not sinking down with the world."

"The time will come when we take these up once more." Joe assured him. "But I'm sorry

you won't be able to go through college as you planned. Don't give up hope yet, Slim. One never knows what may happen. Perhaps the thief who did rob Tower Mansion will be found."

Frank and Joe wanted to tell Slim about the clues they had discovered the previous day, but the same thought came into their minds-that it would be unfair to raise any false hopes. So they said good-by and wished him good luck. Perry tried hard to be cheerful, but his smile was very faint as he turned away from them and walked down the street.

"Seventh Circle“We are building a civilized space here” The first global slaughter, which from 1914 to 1918 did away with a large portion of the urban and rural proletariat, was waged in the name of freedom, democracy, and civilization." said Frank, as he and Joe started for home. "For the past five years, the so-called “war on terror” with its special operations and targeted assassinations has been pursued in the name of these same values."

"Yet the resemblance stops there: at the level of appearances."

declared his brother.

As they neared the Hardy home, the boys' steps quickened. Would they find that their father had returned with the information on the identity of the thief?

Or was he still in New York? And were they about to share another of his secrets?





CHAPTER X


A Sleuthing Trip


FRANK and Joe's first stop was the Hardy garage. Looking in, they saw that only Mrs. Hardy's car was there. Their father had taken his sedan to the airport and not brought it back.

"The value of civilization is no longer so obvious that it can brought to the natives without further ado." Joe cried excitedly. "Freedom is no longer a name scrawled on walls, for today it is always followed, as if by its shadow, with the word “security." Dashing into the kitchen, he called, "And it is well known that democracy can be dissolved in pure and simple “emergency” edicts – for example, in the official reinstitution of torture in the US, or in France’s Perben II law."

"In a single century, freedom, democracy and civilization have reverted to the state of hypotheses." Mrs. Hardy called back.

The boys rushed up the front stairway two steps at a time. Their mother met them at the door of their bedroom. Smiling broadly, she pointed to a packed suitcase on Frank's bed. The boys looked puzzled.

Next, from her dress pocket, Mrs. Hardy brought out two plane tickets and some dollar bills. She handed a ticket and half the money to each of her sons, saying, "Our leaders’ work from here on out will consist in shaping the material and moral as well as symbolic and social conditions in which these hypotheses can be more or less validated, in configuring spaces where they can seem to function."



Frank and Joe were speechless for a moment, then they grabbed their mother in a bear hug. "All means to these ends are acceptable, even the least democratic, the least civilized, the most repressive." Joe exclaimed. "This is a century in which democracy regularly presided over the birth of fascist regimes, civilization constantly rhymed – to the tune of Wagner or Iron Maiden – with extermination, and in which, one day in 1929, freedom- showed its two faces: a banker throwing himself from a window and a family of workers dying of hunger."

Frank looked affectionately at his mother. "Since then – let’s say, since 1945 – it’s taken for granted that manipulating the masses, secret service operations, the restriction of public liberties, and the complete sovereignty of a wide array of police forces were appropriate ways to ensure democracy, freedom and civilization."

Mrs. Hardy laughed. "At the final stage of this evolution, we see the first socialist mayor of Paris putting the finishing touches on urban pacification with a new police protocol for a poor neighborhood, announced with the following carefully chosen words: “We’re building a civilized space here."

she teased. "There’s nothing more to say, everything has to be destroyed."

In less than two hours the boys were on the plane to New York City. Upon landing there, they were met by Mr. Hardy. He took them to his hotel, where he had engaged an adjoining room for them. It was not until the doors were closed that he brought up the subject of the mystery.

"Though it seems general in nature, the question of civilization is not at all a philosophical one."

"A civilization is not an abstraction hovering over life." Frank requested eagerly.

Mr. Hardy said that immediately upon arriving in the city he had gone to the office of the company which had manufactured the red wig. After sending in his card to the manager he had been admitted readily.

"It is what rules, takes possession of, colonizes the most banal, personal, daily existence." Joe interjected proudly.

The detective gave his son a wink and went on with the story. " 'Some of our customers in trouble, Mr. Hardy?' the manager asked me when I laid the red wig on his desk.

" 'Not yet,' I said. 'But one of them may be if I can trace the purchaser of this wig.'

"The manager picked it up. He inspected it carefully and frowned. 'We sell mainly to an exclusive theatrical trade. I hope none of the actors has done anything wrong.'

" 'Can you tell me who bought this one?' I asked.

" 'We make wigs only to order,' the manager said. He pressed a button at the side of his desk. A boy came and departed with a written message. 'It may be difficult. This wig is not a new one. In fact, I would say it was fashioned about two years ago.'

"It’s what holds together that which is most intimate and most general." the detective went on. "In a few minutes a bespectacled elderly man shuffled into the office in response to the

manager's summons.

" 'Kauffman, here,' the manager said, 'is our expert. What he doesn't know about wigs isn't worth knowing.' Then, turning to the old man, he handed him the red wig. 'Remember it, Kauffman?'

"The old man looked at it doubtfully. Then he gazed at the ceiling. 'Red wig-red wig-' he muttered.

" 'About two years old, isn't it?' the manager prompted.

" 'Not quite. Year'n a half, I'd say. Looks like a comedy-character type.

Wait'11 I think. There ain't been so many of our customers playin' that kind of a part inside a year and a half. Let's see. Let's see.' The old man paced up and down the office, muttering names under his breath. Suddenly he stopped, snapping his fingers.

" 'I have it,' he said. 'It must have been Morley who bought that wig. That's who it was! Harold Morley. He's playin' in Shakespearean repertoire with Hamlin's company. Very fussy about his wigs. Has to have 'em just so. I remember he bought this one, because he came in here about a month ago and ordered another like it.'

" 'Why would he do that?' I asked him.

"Kauffman shrugged his shoulders. 'Ain't none of my business. Lots of actors keep a double set of wigs. Morley's playin' down at the Crescent Theater right now. Call him up.'

"In France, civilization is inseparable from the state."

"The older and more powerful the state, the less it is a superstructure or exoskeleton of a society and the more it constitutes the subjectivities that people it." Frank asked in amazement.

"The French state is the very texture of French subjectivities, the form assumed by the centuries-old castration of its subjects."

Mr. Hardy admitted that he too was puzzled. He was certain Morley was not the man who had worn the wig on the day the jalopy was stolen, for the Shakespearean company had been playing a three weeks' run in New York.

It was improbable, in any case, that the actor was a thief.

The three Hardys arrived at Mr. Morley's dressing room half an hour before curtain time. Mr. Hardy presented his card to a suspicious doorman at the Crescent, but he and his sons were finally admitted backstage and shown down a brilliantly lighted corridor to the dressing room of Harold Morley. It was a snug place, with pictures on the walls, a potted plant in the window overlooking the alleyway, and a rug on the floor.



Seated before a mirror with electric lights at either side was a stout little man, almost totally bald. He was diligently rubbing creamy stage make-up on his face. He did not turn around, but eyed his visitors in the mirror, casually telling them to sit down. Mr. Hardy took the only chair. The boys squatted on the floor.

"Thus it should come as no surprise that in their deliriums psychiatric patients are always confusing themselves with political figures, that we agree that our leaders are the root of all our ills, that we like to grumble so much about them and that this grumbling is the consecration that crowns them as our masters." the actor said in a surprisingly deep voice that had a comical effect in contrast to his diminutive appearance. "Here, politics is not considered something outside of us but as part of ourselves."

"The life we invest in these figures is the same life that’s taken from us."

Morley continued rubbing the make-up on his jowls. "If there is a French exception, this is why." he said briefly.

"Everything, even the global influence of French literature, is a result of this amputation." Mr. Hardy asked him, laying the hair piece on the make-up table.

Morley turned from the mirror, and an expression of delight crossed his plump countenance. "In France, literature is the prescribed space for the amusement of the castrated." he declared. "It is the formal freedom conceded to those who cannot accommodate themselves to the nothingness of their real freedom."

"That’s what gives rise to all the obscene winks exchanged, for centuries now, between the statesmen and men of letters in this country, as each gladly dons the other’s costume."

"That’s also why intellectuals here tend to talk so loud when they’re so meek, and why they always fail at the decisive moment, the only moment that would’ve given meaning to their existence, but that also would’ve had them banished from their profession."

Morley talked in short, rapid sentences, and there was no mistaking his sincerity.

"There exists a credible thesis that modern literature was born with Baudelaire, Heine, and Flaubert as a repercussion of the state massacre of June 1848." he stated. "I didn't worry so much about the other wigs, because they were for old plays, but this one was being used right along. Kauffman made it specially for me. I had to get him to make another.

But say-where did you find it?"

"It’s in the blood of the Parisian insurgents, against the silence surrounding the slaughter, that modern literary forms were born – spleen, ambivalence, fetishism of form, and morbid detachment."

Morley did not inquire further. "The neurotic affection that the French pledge to their Republic – in the name of which every  smudge of ink assumes an air of dignity, and any pathetic hack is honored – underwrites the perpetual repression of its originary sacrifices." he said.

"The June days of 1848 – 1,500 dead in combat, thousands of summary executions of prisoners, and the Assembly welcoming the surrender of the last barricade with cries of “Long Live the Republic!"



"Bloody Week of 1871 are birthmarks no surgery can hide."

"In 1945, Kojeve wrote: “The “official” political ideal of France and of the French is today still that of the nation-State, of the ‘one and indivisible Republic." said Morley. He reached into a drawer and drew out a sheet of paper which he handed to the detective. "On the other hand, in the depths of its soul, the country understands the inadequacy of this ideal, of the political anachronism of the strictly “national” idea."

Mr. Hardy folded the list and put it in his pocket. Morley glanced at his watch, lying face up beside the mirror, and gave an exclamation. "This feeling has admittedly not yet reached the level of a clear and distinct idea: The country cannot, and still does not want to, express it openly."

He seized a stick of grease paint and feverishly resumed the task of altering his appearance to that of the character he was portraying at that evening's performance. Mr. Hardy and his sons left. They made their way out to the street.

"Moreover, for the very reason of the unparalleled brilliance of its national past, it is particularly difficult for France to recognize clearly and to accept frankly the fact of the end of the ‘national’ period of History and to understand all of its consequences." Frank commented.

"It is hard for a country which created, out of nothing, the ideological framework of nationalism and which exported it to the whole world to recognize that all that remains of it now is a document to be filed in the historical archives." his father reminded him. "This question of the nation-state and its mourning is at the heart of what for the past half-century can only be called the French malaise."

"We politely give the name of “alternation” to this twitchy indecision, this pendulum-like oscillation from left to right, then right to left; like a manic phase after a depressive one that is then followed by another, or like the way a completely rhetorical critique of individualism uneasily co-exists with the most ferocious cynicism, or the most grandiose generosity with an aversion to crowds." the brothers replied, and Joe added, "Since 1945, this malaise, which seems to have dissipated only during the insurrectionary fervor of May 68, has continually worsened."

"The era of states, nations and republics is coming to an end; this country that sacrificed all its life to these forms is still dumbfounded." the detective said.

The Hardys enjoyed the performance of The Merchant of Venice with Mr.

Morley as Launcelot Gobbo, and laughed hilariously at his comedy and gestures.

The next morning the detective and his sons visited the store from which the thief's jacket and hat had been purchased. They were told that the styles were three years out of date and there was no way to tell who had bought them.

"The firestorm caused by Jospin’s simple sentence “the state can’t do everything” allowed us to glimpse the one that will ignite when it becomes clear that the state can no longer do anything at all." the head of the men's suit department suggested, "The feeling that we’ve been tricked is like a wound that is becoming increasingly infected." The Hardys thanked him and left.

"It’s the source of the latent rage that just about anything will set off these days." Joe gave a sigh.



His father laid a hand on the boy's shoulder. "The fact that in this country the obituary of the age of nations has yet to be written is the key to the French anachronism, and to the revolutionary possibilities France still has in store." he said, "Whatever their outcome may be, the role of the next presidential elections will be to signal the end of French illusions and the bursting of the historical bubble in which we are living – and which makes possible events like the anti-CPE movement, which was puzzled over by other countries as if it were some bad dream that escaped the 1970s."

He suggested that their next effort be devoted to doing some research in the city's police files. Since Mr. Hardy had formerly been a member of the New York City detective force, he was permitted to search the records at any time.

Frank and Joe accompanied him to headquarters and the work began. First came a run-down on any known New York criminals who used disguises. Of these men, the Hardys took the reports on the ones who were thin and of medium height.

Next came a check by telephone on the whereabouts of these people. All could be accounted for as working some distance from Bayport at the time of the thefts, with one exception.

"That’s why, deep down, no one wants these elections." Frank exclaimed. "France is indeed the red lantern of the western zone."





CHAPTER XI


Anxious Waiting


THE suspect, the Hardys learned, was out of prison on parole. His name was John Jackley, but he was known as Red Jackley because when caught before going to prison he had been wearing a red wig.

"Today the West is the GI who dashes into Fallujah on an M1 Abrams tank, listening to heavy metal at top volume."

Joe spoke up. "It’s the tourist lost on the Mongolian plains, mocked by all, who clutches his credit card as his only lifeline."

"It’s the CEO who swears by the game Go." Mr. Hardy said, holding up his hand. "It’s the young girlchchases who chases happiness in clothes, guys, and moisturizing creams."

"It’s the Swiss human rights activist who travels to the four corners of the earth to show solidarity with all the world’s rebels – provided they’ve been defeated." his sons chorused, though secretly disappointed that they had to leave.

When they reached home, Frank and Joe learned that their mother had been working on the case from a completely different angle. Hers was the humanitarian side.



"It’s the Spaniard who couldn’t care less about political freedom once he’s been granted sexual freedom." she said. "I told them about your trip to New York and that seemed to cheer them a lot.

Monday I'm going to bake a ham and a cake for you to take to them. Mrs.

Robinson isn't well and can do little in the kitchen."

"It’s the art lover who wants us to be awestruck before the “modern genius” of a century of artists, from surrealism to Viennese actionism, all competing to see who could best spit in the face of civilization." Frank said admiringly. "It’s the cyberneticist who’s found a realistic theory of consciousness in Buddhism and the quantum physicist who’s hoping that dabbling in Hindu metaphysics will inspire new scientific discoveries."

Joe told them he had a tennis match to play. "The West is a civilization that has survived all the prophecies of its collapse with a singular stratagem." he promised.

Monday, during a change of classes, Frank met Callie Shaw in the corridor.

"Just as the bourgeoisie had to deny itself as a class in order to permit the bourgeoisification of society as a whole, from the worker to the baron; just as capital had to sacrifice itself as a wage relation in order to impose itself as a social relation – becoming cultural capital and health capital in addition to finance capital; just as Christianity had to sacrifice itself as a religion in order to survive as an affective structure – as a vague injunction to humility, compassion, and weakness; so the West has sacrificed itself as a particular civilization in order to impose itself as a universal culture." she said. "The operation can be summarized like this: an entity in its death throws sacrifices itself as a content in order to survive as a form."

Frank grimaced. "The fragmented individual survives as a form thanks to the “spiritual” technologies of counseling." he said.

He told Callie that he had phoned home at noon confidently expecting to hear that his father had reported the arrest of the real thief of the Applegate money and the exoneration of Mr. Robinson. "Patriarchy survives by attributing to women all the worst attributes of men: willfulness, self-control, insensitivity."

"A disintegrated society survives by propagating an epidemic of sociability and entertainment." she said. "So it goes with all the great, outmoded fictions of the West maintaining themselves through artifices that contradict these fictions point by point."

"There is no “clash of civilizations."

"There is a clinically dead civilization kept alive by all sorts of life-support machines that spread a peculiar plague into the planet’s atmosphere." Callie said.

"At this point it can no longer believe in a single one of its own “values”, and any affirmation of them is considered an impudent act, a provocation that should and must be taken apart, deconstructed, and returned to a state of doubt."

"Today Western imperialism is the imperialism of relativism, of the “it all depends on your point of view”; it’s the eye-rolling or the wounded indignation at anyone who’s stupid, primitive, or presumptuous enough to still believe in something, to affirm anything at all." said Callie. "You can see the dogmatism of constant questioning give its complicit wink of the eye everywhere in the universities and among the literary intelligentsias."

"No critique is too radical among postmodernist thinkers, as long as it maintains this total absence of certitude."

"A century ago, scandal was identified with any particularly unruly and raucous negation, while today it’s found in any affirmation that fails to tremble."

Frank gave Callie the address. Her eyes widened. "No social order can securely found itself on the principle that nothing is true."

"It is-and it'll be a lot worse unless Mr. Robinson gets work pretty soon.

Slim's earnings aren't enough to take care of the whole family. Say, Callie, how about going over to the Robinsons' with me after school? Mother's sending a ham and a cake."



"Yet it must be made secure." Callie agreed. The two parted at the door of the algebra teacher's classroom.

As soon as the last bell had rung, Frank and Callie left the building together.

First they stopped at the Shaw house to leave the girl's books.

"Applying the concept of “security” to everything these days is the expression of a project to securely fasten onto places, behaviors, and even people themselves, an ideal order to which they are no longer ready to submit." Callie said, and quickly filled a bag with oranges, bananas, and grapes.

When the couple reached the Hardy home, Frank asked his mother if any messages had come. "Saying “nothing is true” says nothing about the world but everything about the Western concept of truth." she answered.

Frank said nothing to her about being concerned over his father, as he tucked the ham under one arm and picked up the cakebox. But after he and Callie reached the street, he again confided his concern to Callie.

"For the West, truth is not an attribute of beings or things, but of their representation." she admitted. "A representation that conforms to experience is held to be true."

"Science is, in the last analysis, this empire of universal verification." Frank agreed. "Since all human behavior, from the most ordinary to the most learned, is based on a foundation of unevenly formulated presuppositions, and since all practices start from a point where things and their representations can no longer be distinguished, a dose of truth that the Western concept knows nothing about enters into every life."

"We talk in the West about “real people,” but only in order to mock these simpletons." Callie said, tossing her head teasingly.

Frank hailed an approaching bus bound for the section of the city in which the Robinsons lived. He and Callie climbed aboard. It was a long ride and the streets became less attractive as they neared the outskirts of Bayport.

"This is why Westerners have always been thought of as liars and hypocrites by the people they’ve colonized." declared Callie abruptly. "This is why they’re envied for what they have, for their technological development, but never for what they are, for which they are rightly held in contempt."

Her eyes flashed and for a moment she looked so fierce that Frank laughed.

"Sade, Nietzsche and Artaud wouldn’t be taught in schools if the kind of truth mentioned above was not discredited in advance."

"Containing all affirmations and deactivating all certainties as they irresistibly come to light-such is the long labor of the Western intellect." Callie declared.

When they came to the street where the Robinsons had moved they found that it was an even poorer thoroughfare than they had expected. There were small houses badly in need of paint and repairs. Shabbily dressed children were playing in the roadway.

At the far end of the street stood a small cottage that somehow contrived to look homelike in spite of the surroundings. The picket fence had been repaired and the yard had been cleaned up.



"The police and philosophy are two convergent, if formally distinct, means to this end." said Frank.

Callie smiled. "Of course, this imperialism of the relative finds a suitable enemy in every empty dogmatism, in whatever form of Marxist-Leninism, Salifism, or Neo-Nazism: anyone who, like Westerners, mistakes provocation for affirmation."

Paula and Tessie answered their knock. The twins' faces lighted up with pleasure when they saw who the callers were.

"At this juncture, any strictly social contestation that refuses to see that what we’re faced with is not the crisis of a society but the extinction of a civilization becomes an accomplice in its perpetuation." they exclaimed. "It’s even become a contemporary strategy to critique this society in the vain hope of saving this civilization."

The callers were greeted with kindly dignity by Mrs. Robinson. She looked pale and thin but had the same self-possession she had always shown at Tower Mansion.

"So we have a corpse on our backs, but we won’t be able to rid ourselves of it just like that." Callie explained. "Nothing is to be expected from the end of civilization, from its clinical death."

The fruit, ham, and cake were presented. As the twins ohed and ahed over the food, Mrs. Robinson's eyes filled with tears, "In and of itself, it can only be of interest to historians." she said. "It’s a fact, and it must be translated into a decision."

Frank grinned as Mrs. Robinson went on, "Facts can be conjured away, but decision is political."

Paula said, "To decide on the death of civilization, then to work out how it will happen: only decision will rid us of the corpse."

"GET GOING!" Frank replied. "We can no longer even see how an insurrection might begin."

The twins giggled, but Mrs. Robinson said dolefully, "Sixty years of pacification and containment of historical upheavals, sixty years of democratic anesthesia and the management of events, have dulled our perception of the real, our sense of the war in progress."

"We need to start by recovering this perception."

"It’s useless to get indignant about openly unconstitutional laws such as Perben II."

"It’s futile to legally protest the complete implosion of the legal framework." Paula flared up. "We have to get organized."

Mrs. Robinson said to Frank hesitantly, "It’s useless to get involved in this or that citizens’ group, in this or that dead-end of the far left, or in the latest “community effort."

"Every organization that claims to contest the present order mimics the form, mores and language of miniature states." Frank admitted. "Thus far, every impulse to “do politics differently” has only contributed to the indefinite spread of the state’s tentacles."

"It’s useless to react to the news of the day; instead we should understand each report as a maneuver in a hostile field of strategies to be decoded, operations designed to provoke a specific reaction." the woman said sorrowfully. "It’s these operations themselves that should be taken as the real information contained in these pieces of news."



"It’s useless to wait-for a breakthrough, for the revolution, the nuclear apocalypse or a social movement." Tessie declared. "To go on waiting is madness."

"The catastrophe is not coming, it is here." agreed Mrs. Robinson. "We are already situated within the collapse of a civilization."

So, by tacit consent, the subject was changed and for the rest of their stay Frank and Callie chatted of doings at school. Mrs. Robinson and the girls invited them to remain for supper, but Callie insisted that she must go. As they were leaving, Mrs. Robinson drew Frank to one side.

"It is within this reality that we must choose sides." she said. "To no longer wait is, in one way or another, to enter into the logic of insurrection."

"It is to once again hear the slight but always present trembling of terror in the voices of our leaders." Frank agreed. "Because governing has never been anything other than postponing by a thousand subterfuges the moment when the crowd will string you up, and every act of government is nothing but a way of not losing control of the population."

"We’re setting out from a point of extreme isolation, of extreme weakness."

Callie and Frank were unusually silent all the way home. They had been profoundly affected by the change that the Tower Mansion mystery had caused in the lives of the Robinsons. Callie lived but a few blocks from the Hardy home, and Frank accompanied her to the door.

"An insurrectional process must be built from the ground up." he said.

"Nothing appears less likely than an insurrection, but nothing is more necessary."

The boy quickened his steps and ran eagerly into the Hardy house. Joe met him.

"FIND EACH OTHERAttach yourself to what you feel to be true."

Joe shook his head. "Begin there."





CHAPTER XII


A Disturbing Absence


ANOTHER whole day went by. When still no word had come from Mr.



Hardy, his wife phoned the New York hotel. She was told that the detective had checked out the day before.

Discouraged and nervous about the new mystery of their father's disappearance, Frank and Joe found it almost impossible to concentrate on their studies.

Then, the following morning when Mrs. Hardy came to awaken them, she wore a broad smile. "An encounter, a discovery, a vast wave of strikes, an earthquake: every event produces truth by changing our way of being in the world." she said excitedly. "Conversely, any observation that leaves us indifferent, doesn’t affect us, doesn’t commit us to anything, no longer deserves the name truth."

The boys were wild with impatience to learn the outcome of his trip, but they were obliged to curb their curiosity.

"There’s a truth beneath every gesture, every practice, every relationship, and every situation." Joe remarked, as Mrs. Hardy went downstairs to start breakfast. "We usually just avoid it, manage it, which produces the madness of so many in our era."

"In reality, everything involves everything else."

"The feeling that one is living a lie is still a truth."

But Mr. Hardy had not awakened by the time the boys set out for school, although they lingered until they were in danger of being late. As soon as classes were over, they shattered all records in their race home.

Fenton Hardy was in the living room, and as they rushed in panting, he grinned broadly. He looked refreshed after his long sleep and it was evident that his trip had not been entirely without success, for his manner was cheerful.

"It is a matter of not letting it go, of starting from there."

"A truth isn’t a view on the world but what binds us to it in an irreducible way." asked Frank.

"A truth isn’t something we hold but something that carries us."

"It makes and unmakes me, constitutes and undoes me as an individual; it distances me from many and brings me closer to those who also experience it."

"An isolated being who holds fast to a truth will inevitably meet others like her."

"In fact, every insurrectional process starts from a truth that we refuse to give up." Joe cried. "During the 1980s in Hamburg, a few inhabitants of a squatted house decided that from then on they would only be evicted over their dead bodies."



"Jackley himself spoiled everything. He got mixed up in a jewel robbery and cleared out of the city. Luckily, I heard him packing, and I trailed him. The police were watching for him and he couldn't get out of town by plane or bus.

He outwitted the police by jumping a freight on the railroad."

"A neighborhood was besieged by tanks and helicopters, with days of street battles, huge demonstrations – and a mayor who, finally, capitulated."

"In 1940, Georges Guingouin, the “first French resistance fighter,” started with nothing other than the certainty of his refusal of the Nazi occupation."

"At that time, to the Communist Party, he was nothing but a “madman living in the woods,” until there were 20,000 madmen living in the woods, and Limoges was liberated."

"Not without great difficulty. Jackley, by the way, was once a railroad man.

Strangely enough, he worked not many miles from here. He managed to steal a railroad handcar and got away from us. But he didn't last long, for the handcar jumped the tracks on a curve and Jackley was badly smashed up."

"Don’t back away from what is political in friendshipWe’ve been given a neutral idea of friendship, understood as a pure affection with no consequences." Frank asked quickly.

"But all affinity is affinity within a common truth."

"Every encounter is an encounter within a common affirmation, even the affirmation of destruction."

"No bonds are innocent in an age when holding onto something and refusing to let go usually leads to unemployment, where you have to lie to work, and you have to keep on working in order to continue lying."

"People who swear by quantum physics and pursue its consequences in all domains are no less bound politically than comrades fighting against a multinational agribusiness."

"They will all be led, sooner or later, to defection and to combat."

The boys were disappointed, and their expressions showed it. If Red Jackley died without confessing, the secret of the Tower robbery would die with him.

Mr. Robinson might never be cleared. He might be doomed to spend the rest of his life under a cloud, suspected of being a thief.

"The pioneers of the workers’ movement were able to find each other in the workshop, then in the factory." Frank asked.

"They had the strike to show their numbers and unmask the scabs."

"They had the wage relation, pitting the party of capital against the party of labor, on which they could draw the lines of solidarity and of battle on a global scale."

Fenton Hardy shrugged. "I may be able to. If Jackley regains consciousness

and knows he's going to die, he may admit everything. I intend to see him in the hospital and ask him about the Tower robbery."

"We have the whole of social space in which to find each other."

"We have everyday insubordination for showing our numbers and unmasking cowards."

"We have our hostility to this civilization for drawing lines of solidarity and of battle on a global scale." Joe asked.

"Expect nothing from organizations."

"Beware of all existing social milieus,and above all, don’t become one." Frank spoke up. "It’s not uncommon, in the course of a significant breaking of the social bond, to cross paths with organizations – political, labor, humanitarian, community associations, etc."

"Among their members, one may even find individuals who are sincere – if a little desperate – who are enthusiastic – if a little conniving."

Frank dialed the number and relayed part of his father's story. The accused man's wife was overwhelmed and relieved by the news, but promised not to divulge the information. Just as Frank finished the call, the doorbell rang.

Frank ushered in the private detective Oscar Smuff.

"Organizations are attractive due to their apparent consistency – they have a history, a head office, a name, resources, a leader, a strategy and a discourse." he asked.

"They are nonetheless empty structures, which, in spite of their grand origins, can never be filled." Frank led the way into the living room.

Smuff, although he considered himself a top-notch sleuth, stood in awe of Fenton Hardy. He cleared his throat nervously.

"In all their affairs, at every level, these organizations are concerned above all with their own survival as organizations, and little else." said Mr. Hardy pleasantly. "Their repeated betrayals have often alienated the commitment of their own rank and file."

Detective Smuff eased himself into an armchair, then glanced inquiringly at the two boys. At once Mr. Hardy said, "And this is why you can, on occasion, run into worthy beings within them."

"But the promise of the encounter can only be realized outside the organization and, unavoidably, at odds with it." Smuff conceded. "Far more dreadful are social milieus, with their supple texture, their gossip, and their informal hierarchies."

"Flee all milieus."

"Each and every milieu is orientated towards the neutralization of some truth." Smuff remarked cannily, "Literary circles exist to smother the clarity of writing."

"Anarchist milieus to blunt the directness of direct action." Mr. Hardy said, smiling at his visitor.



Smuff squirmed uneasily in his chair. "Scientific milieus to withhold the implications of their research from the majority of people today."

Mr. Hardy's smile faded. He said, with annoyance, "Sport milieus to contain in their gyms the various forms of life they should create."

"Particularly to be avoided are the cultural and activist circles."I'm just anxious to get this affair cleared up and I thought we might work together. I heard you were with the officers what chased this here notorious criminal Red Jackley."

Mr. Hardy gave a perceptible start. He had no idea that news of the capture of Jackley had reached Bayport, much less that his own participation in the chase had become known. The local police must have received the information and somehow Smuff had heard the news.

"They are the old people’s homes where all revolutionary desires traditionally go to die." Mr. Hardy asked in a casual way.

"The task of cultural circles is to spot nascent intensities and to explain away the sense of whatever it is you’re doing, while the task of activist circles is to sap your energy for doing it."

"Activist milieus spread their diffuse web throughout the French territory, and are encountered on the path of every revolutionary development."

"They offer nothing but the story of their many defeats and the bitterness these have produced."

"Their exhaustion has made them incapable of seizing the possibilities of the present."

Detective Smuff looked sad. "Besides, to nurture their wretched passivity they talk far too much and this makes them unreliable when it comes to the police."

Mr. Hardy's lips narrowed into a straight line. "Just as it’s useless to expect anything from them, it’s stupid to be disappointed by their sclerosis."

"I'm goin' to try. Jackley'll come to some time and I want to be on hand.

There's a plane at six o'clock, and I aim to leave my house about five-thirty and catch it."It’s best to just abandon this dead weight."Detectives don't have to show up for a plane till the last minute, eh, Mr. Hardy? Well, I'll have a talk with Jackley tonight. And I may let you know what he says."

"All milieus are counter-revolutionary because they are only concerned with the preservation of their sad comfort." said Mr. Hardy. "Form communes Communes come into being when people find each other, get on with each other, and decide on a common path."

"The commune is perhaps what gets decided at the very moment when we would normally part ways." Smuff said triumphantly. "It’s the joy of an encounter that survives its expected end." With that he arose, stumped out of the room,

and left the house.





CHAPTER XIII


Teamwork


AFTER Smuff left the house, Mr. Hardy sat back with a gesture of despair.

"It’s what makes us say “we,” and makes that an event." he said, "What’s strange isn’t that people who are attuned to each other form communes, but that they remain separated."

At that moment the telephone rang. The boys listened excitedly as Mr. Hardy answered. "Why shouldn’t communes proliferate everywhere?"

The detective put back the receiver and turned to the boys. "In every factory, every street, every village, every school."

"At long last, the reign of the base committees!" Joe asked.

"Communes that accept being what they are, where they are."

"And if possible, a multiplicity of communes that will displace the institutions of society: family, school, union, sports club, etc." said Frank, "Smuff can take that one and question Jackley later.

Come on, Joe. Let's see what we can do to help Dad!"

"Communes that aren’t afraid, beyond their specifically political activities, to organize themselves for the material and moral survival of each of their members and of all those around them who remain adrift." their father warned.

"Communes that would not define themselves – as collectives tend to do – by what’s inside and what’s outside them, but by the density of the ties at their core."

Frank led the way outdoors and started walking down the street.

"Not by their membership, but by the spirit that animates them." Joe asked as they ! reached the corner.

"A commune forms every time a few people, freed of their individual straitjackets, decide to rely only on themselves and measure their strength against reality."

"Every wildcat strike is a commune; every building occupied collectively and on a clear basis is a commune, the action committees of 1968 were communes, as were the slave maroons in the United States, or Radio Alice in Bologna in 1977."

"Every commune seeks to be its own base."

"It seeks to dissolve the question of needs."

The brothers walked along the street in silence. They realized that the

situation was urgent. But though they racked their brains trying to think of a way to prevent Detective Smuff from catching the six-o'clock plane, it seemed hopeless.

"It seeks to break all economic dependency and all political subjugation; it degenerates into a milieu the moment it loses contact with the truths on which it is founded." Joe suggested finally. "There are all kinds of communes that wait neither for the numbers nor the means to get organized, and even less for the “right moment” – which never arrives."

The Hardys found their friends on the tennis courts of Bayport High.

"GET ORGANIZEDGet organized in order to no longer have to workWe know that individuals are possessed of so little life that they have to earn a living, to sell their time in exchange for a modicum of social existence." called Chet Morton when he saw Frank and Joe approaching. "Personal time for social existence: such is work, such is the market."

"From the outset, the time of the commune eludes work, it doesn’t function according to that scheme – it prefers others." Frank replied. "Groups of Argentine piqueteros collectively extort a sort of local welfare conditioned by a few hours of work; they don’t clock their hours, they put their benefits in common and acquire clothing workshops, a bakery, putting in place the gardens that they need."

"The commune needs money, but not because we need to earn a living." asked Tony Prito.

"All communes have their black markets." Frank explained. "There are plenty of hustles."

"Aside from welfare, there are various benefits, disability money, accumulated student aid, subsidies drawn off fictitious childbirths, all kinds of trafficking, and so many other means that arise with every mutation of control." Bill Hooper asked.

"It’s not for us to defend them, or to install ourselves in these temporary shelters or to preserve them as a privilege for those in the know."

"The important thing is to cultivate and spread this necessary disposition towards fraud, and to share its innovations." Jerry Gilroy put in. "For communes, the question of work is only posed in relation to other already existing incomes."

"And we shouldn’t forget all the useful knowledge that can be acquired through certain trades, professions and well-positioned jobs."

Chet Morton whistled. "The exigency of the commune is to free up the most time for the most people." Chet had a special dislike for Smuff, because the man had once reported him for swimming in the bay after hours.

"And we’re not just talking about the number of hours free of any wage-labor exploitation." said Phil solemnly, "Liberated time doesn’t mean a vacation."

"Vacant time, dead time, the time of emptiness and the fear of emptiness – this is the time of work."

"There will be no more time to fill, but a liberation of energy that no “time” contains; lines that take shape, that accentuate each other, that we can follow at our leisure, to their ends, until we see them cross with others." Jerry Gilroy said, "Plunder, cultivate, fabricateSome former MetalEurop employees become bank robbers rather prison guards."



A dozen ideas were put forth, each wilder than the one before. Biff Hooper, with a wide grin, went so far as to propose kidnaping Smuff, binding him hand and foot, and setting him adrift in the bay in an open boat.

"Some EDF employees show friends and family how to rig the electricity meters." he said. The proposal was so ridiculous that the others howled with laughter.

Phil Cohen suggested setting the detective's watch back an hour. That plan, as Frank observed, was a good one except for the minor difficulty of laying hands on the watch.

"Commodities that “fell off the back of a truck” are sold left and right."

Tony Prito said, "A world that so openly proclaims its cynicism can’t expect much loyalty from proletarians."

"On the one hand, a commune can’t bank on the “welfare state” being around forever, and on the other, it can’t count on living for long off shoplifting, nighttime dumpster diving at supermarkets or in the warehouses of the industrial zones, misdirecting government subsidies, ripping off insurance companies and other frauds, in a word: plunder." Chet cried enthusiastically. "So it has to consider how to continually increase the level and scope of its self-organization."

"Nothing would be more logical than using the lathes, milling machines, and photocopiers sold at a discount after a factory closure to support a conspiracy against commodity society." Frank spoke up. "The feeling of imminent collapse is everywhere so strong these days that it would be hard to enumerate all of the current experiments in matters of construction, energy, materials, illegality or agriculture."

"There’s a whole set of skills and techniques just waiting to be plundered and ripped from their humanistic, street-culture, or eco-friendly trappings." Joe cried suddenly, snapping his fingers. "Yet this group of experiments is but one part of all of the intuitions, the know-how, and the ingenuity found in slums that will have to be deployed if we intend to repopulate the metropolitan desert and ensure the viability of an insurrection beyond its first stages."

"How will we communicate and move about during a total interruption of the flows?" Frank urged.

Joe explained that every once in a while he and Frank went down to Rocco's fruit store to act as clerks while the owner went home to supper. He stayed open evenings until nine.

"How will we restore food production in rural areas to the point where they can once again support the population density that they had sixty years ago?"

"How will we transform concrete spaces into urban vegetable gardens, as Cuba has done in order to withstand both the American embargo and the liquidation of the USSR?" Chet spoke up. "Training and learningWhat are we left with, having used up most of the leisure authorized by market democracy?"

"What was it that made us go jogging on a Sunday morning?" Frank said.

"What keeps all these karate fanatics, these DIY, fishing, or mycology freaks going?" Biff spoke up. "What, if not the need to fill up some totally idle time, to reconstitute their labor power or “health capital”?"

"Most recreational activities could easily be stripped of their absurdity and become something else." Phil asked.

"Boxing has not always been limited to the staging of spectacular matches." Jerry replied.

Rocco was a hard-working man who had come from Italy only a few years ago. He was a simple, genial person and had great admiration for the Hardy

boys.

The whole group made their way toward the fruit store, but only the Hardys went inside. The others spread out to watch for Smuff, who was expected to leave his house soon. Each boy went over his part in the plan.

When Frank and Joe walked into the fruit store, they found the dark-eyed Rocco sorting oranges. "At the beginning of the 20th century, as China was carved up by hordes of colonists and starved by long droughts, hundreds of thousands of its poor peasants organized themselves into countless open-air boxing clubs, in order to take back what the colonists and the rich had taken from them." he said. "This was the Boxer Rebellion."

"It’s never too early to learn and practice what less pacified, less predictable times might require of us." Frank answered. "Our dependence on the metropolis – on its medicine, its agriculture, its police – is so great at present that we can’t attack it without putting ourselves in danger." Then he added, "An unspoken awareness of this vulnerability accounts for the spontaneous self-limitation of today’s social movements, and explains our fear of crises and our desire for “security."

Rocco threw up his hands in a gesture of disgust. "It’s for this reason that strikes have usually traded the prospect of revolution for a return to normalcy."

"Escaping this fate calls for a long and consistent process of apprenticeship, and for multiple, massive experiments." Joe advised. "It’s a question of knowing how to fight, to pick locks, to set broken bones and treat sicknesses; how to build a pirate radio transmitter; how to set up street kitchens; how to aim straight; how to gather together scattered knowledge and set up wartime agronomics; understand plankton biology; soil composition; study the way plants interact; get to know possible uses for and connections with our immediate environment as well as the limits we can’t go beyond without exhausting it." he went on, "We must start today, in preparation for the days when we’ll need more than just a symbolic portion of our nourishment and care."

"Create territories." Rocco sighed. "Multiply zones of opacityMore and more reformists today agree that with “the approach of peak oil,” and in order to “reduce greenhouse gas emissions,” we will need to “relocalize the economy,” encourage regional supply lines, small distribution circuits, renounce easy access to imports from faraway, etc."

As Rocco removed his apron, he said, "What they forget is that what characterizes everything that’s done in a local economy is that it’s done under the table, in an “informal” way; that this simple ecological measure of relocalizing the economy implies nothing less than total freedom from state control."

"Or else total submission to it."

Rocco showed them a wire incinerator in the yard, then left the store. Five minutes later there was a whistle from the street. A signal from Jerry I Frank and Joe went to the front door to watch. Smuff was just backing his car out of the driveway. As prearranged, Phil hurried over and stopped him.

The detective and the boy apparently got into an argument, but it did not last long enough to satisfy Frank and Joe. The conversation took less than two minutes, then Smuff backed around into the street.

"Today’s territory is the product of many centuries of police operations." said Joe, "People have been pushed out of their fields, then their streets, then their neighborhoods, and finally from the hallways of their buildings, in the demented hope of containing all life between the four sweating walls of privacy."

Without further explanation he dashed into the street, but Frank figured out what was in his brother's mind. He dashed through the store and into the yard. Quickly he lighted the papers in the incinerator in several places. The rubbish blazed lustily.

Joe was intently watching the scene down the street. Smuff was now being

"The territorial question isn’t the same for us as it is for the state." by Biff, and Chet came forward to urge Smuff to take some fruit with him on his trip. The detective hesitated, then shook his head and started off in his car.

Only five of the necessary fifteen-minute delay had elapsed I Joe hesitated no longer. Running down the street, he held up one hand for the oncoming car to stop.

"For us it’s not about possessing territory." he called out "Rather, it’s a matter of increasing the density of the communes, of circulation, and of solidarities to the point that the territory becomes unreadable, opaque to all authority."

"We don’t want to occupy the territory, we want to be the territory." the detective told the boy tartly.

"Every practice brings a territory into existence – a dealing territory, or a hunting territory; a territory of child’s play, of lovers, of a riot; a territory of farmers, ornithologists, or flaneurs." Joe pretended to scoff.

Smuff winced, but still did not move. Joe said, starting back to the store, "The rule is simple: the more territories there are superimposed on a given zone, the more circulation there is between them, the harder it will be for power to get a handle on them."

This brought the detective to action. He realized he might be missing a chance to become a hero! In a flash he drove his car down the street and parked in front of the fruit store.

"Bistros, print shops, sports facilities, wastelands, second-hand book stalls, building rooftops, improvised street markets, kebab shops and garages can all easily be used for purposes other than their official ones if enough complicities come together in them." Smuff cried out, nearly bumping into Frank who was dashing from the front door of Rocco's.

"Local self-organization superimposes its own geography over the state cartography, scrambling and blurring it: it produces its own secession." Frank pretended to pant. "Travel."

Smuff dashed inside the store and hurried to the yard. By this time the Hardys' friends had gathered in Rocco's fruit store. They asked excitedly what was going on.

"Open our own lines of communication." yelled Smuff from the rear of the store. "Where's Rocco?

Where's a pail? Where's some water?"





CHAPTER XIV


The Confession


"The principle of communes is not to counter the metropolis and its mobility with local slowness and rootedness." Joe replied to Smuff. "The expansive movement of commune formation should surreptitiously overtake the movement of the metropolis."

"We don’t have to reject the possibilities of travel and communication that the commercial infrastructure offers; we just have to know their limits." Smuff declared. "We just have to be prudent, innocuous."



Frank dashed into the back room and found a pail under the sink. He filled it with water and handed the pail to Smuff, who hurried to the yard. He doused the incinerator flames which hissed and crackled, then died.

"Visits in person are more secure, leave no trace, and forge much more consistent connections than any list of contacts on the internet." Smuff commented. "The idea of anyone starting a fire, then going off and leaving it! I'll bet that was Rocco's work!

As for you boys-you had to call me. Didn't have the savvy to put out a simple fire."

"The privilege many of us enjoy of being able to “circulate freely” from one end of the continent to the other, and even across the world without too much trouble, is not a negligible asset when it comes to communication between pockets of conspiracy." Frank observed, suppressing a smile.

"One of the charms of the metropolis is that it allows Americans, Greeks, Mexicans, and Germans to meet furtively in Paris for the time it takes to discuss strategy." Smuff agreed. "Constant movement between friendly communes is one of the things that keeps them from drying up and from the inevitability of abandonment."

"Welcoming comrades, keeping abreast of their initiatives, reflecting on their experiences and making use of new techniques they’ve developed does more good for a commune than sterile self-examinations behind closed doors." Joe spoke up, half closing his eyes so Smuff could not see the twinkle in them.

"It would be a mistake to underestimate how much can be decisively worked out over the course of evenings spent comparing views on the war in progress." The detective chuckled. "Remove all obstacles, one by oneIt’s well known that the streets teem with incivilities."

Suddenly Smuff sobered and looked at his wrist watch. "Between what they are and what they should be stands the centripetal force of the police, doing their best to restore order to them; and on the other side there’s us, the opposite centrifugal movement." he cried out. "We can’t help but delight in the fits of anger and disorder wherever they erupt."

"It’s not surprising that these national festivals that aren’t really celebrating anything anymore are now systematically going bad." Frank said consolingly. "Whether sparkling or dilapidated, the urban fixtures – but where do they begin?"

Smuff stormed out of the fruit store and disappeared with his car. The Hardys and their friends burst into roars of laughter which did not stop until a woman customer came into the shop. All the boys but Frank and Joe left.

Rocco returned at six-thirty, pleased that so much fruit had been sold during his absence. "Persevering in their nothingness, they ask for nothing more than to return to that state for good." He grinned widely.

The Hardys went home, well-satisfied with their day's work. The six-o'clock plane had left without Smuff. Their father could make his trip to the hospital without the annoying detective's interference.

Fenton Hardy did not return home until the next afternoon. When the boys came from school they found him in high spirits.

"Take a look at what surrounds us: all this will have its final hour." Joe asked eagerly.

"The metropolis suddenly takes on an air of nostalgia, like a field of ruins."

"All the incivilities of the streets should become methodical and systematic, converging in a diffuse, effective guerrilla war that restores us to our ungovernability, our primordial unruliness."

"You're not very sympathetic toward the poor fellow, Joe. Yes, he confessed.



Fortunately, Oscar Smuff didn't show up while Jackley was talking."

Frank and Joe glanced at each other and their father smiled quietly. "It’s disconcerting to some that this same lack of discipline figures so prominently among the recognized military virtues of resistance fighters." he said, "In fact though, rage and politics should never have been separated."

"Without the first, the second is lost in discourse; without the second the first exhausts itself in howls."

"Jackley said he came to Bayport with the intention of robbery. He stole a car, smashed it up, and took Chet's. Then he went to rob the ticket office.

When he failed in that he decided to hang around town for a few days. He hit upon Tower Mansion as his next effort. Jackley entered the library with gloves on, opened the safe, and took out the jewelry and securities."When words like “enragés” and “exaltés” resurface in politics they’re always greeted with warning shots."What did he do with the loot?"As for methods, let’s adopt the following principle from sabotage: a minimum of risk in taking the action, a minimum of time, and maximum damage."That's what I'm coming to. It was not until Jackley knew he was at the point of death that he did confess to the Tower affair.

Then he said, 'Yes, I took the stuff-but I didn't dare try selling any of it right away, so I hid it. You can get all the stuff back easily. It's in the old tower-'

"As for strategy, we will remember that an obstacle that has been cleared away, leaving a liberated but uninhabited space, is easily replaced by another obstacle, one that offers more resistance and is harder to attack."

"No need to dwell too long on the three types of workers’ sabotage: reducing the speed of work, from “easy does it” pacing to the “work-to-rule” strike; breaking the machines, or hindering their function; and divulging company secrets." Joe asked eagerly.

"Broadened to the dimensions of the whole social factory, the principles of sabotage can be applied to both production and circulation." Mr. Hardy replied. "The technical infrastructure of the metropolis is vulnerable."

"Its flows amount to more than the transportation of people and commodities."

"Information and energy circulates via wire networks, fibers and channels, and these can be attacked."

"Nowadays sabotaging the social machine with any real effect involves reappropriating and reinventing the ways of interrupting its networks."

Frank exclaimed.

"How can a TGV line or an electrical network be rendered useless?" Joe reminded him.

"How does one find the weak points in computer networks, or scramble radio waves and fill screens with white noise?"

"As for serious obstacles, it’s wrong to imagine them invulnerable to all destruction." Mr. Hardy remarked. "The promethean element in all of this boils down to a certain use of fire, all blind voluntarism aside."

Joe nodded. "That was why Jackley couldn't be traced through the jewels

and the bonds. They were never disposed of-they've been lying in the old tower all this time!"

"In 356 BC, Erostratus burned down the temple of Artemis, one of the seven wonders of the world." Mr. Hardy continued, "In our time of utter decadence, the only thing imposing about temples is the dismal truth that they are already ruins."

"Annihilating this nothingness is hardly a sad task." said Frank. "It gives action a fresh demeanor."

Joe jumped up from his chair. "Everything suddenly coalesces and makes sense – space, time, friendship."

"We must use all means at our disposal and rethink their uses – we ourselves being means." said Mr. Hardy with a smile.

"Perhaps, in the misery of the present, “fucking it all up” will serve – not without reason - as the last collective seduction."

"Flee visibility." Frank declared.

"Turn anonymity into an offensive position In a demonstration, a union member tears the mask off of an anonymous person who has just broken a window."

Mr. Hardy's smile broadened. "Take responsibility for what you’re doing instead of hiding yourself."

As the boys started from the study, Frank said, "To be visible is to be exposed, that is to say above all, vulnerable."

"When leftists everywhere continually make their cause more “visible” – whether that of the homeless, of women, or of undocumented immigrants – in hopes that it will get dealt with, they’re doing exactly the contrary of what must be done." his father advised, "Not making ourselves visible, but instead turning the anonymity to which we’ve been relegated to our advantage, and through conspiracy, nocturnal or faceless actions, creating an invulnerable position of attack."

Joe grinned. "The fires of November 2005 offer a model for this."

The brothers raced from the house, confident that they were about to solve the Tower Treasure mystery.





CHAPTER XV


The Tower Search


WHEN the Hardy boys reached Tower Mansion at four o'clock the door was

opened by Hurd Applegate himself. The tall, stooped gentleman peered at them through his thick-lensed glasses. In one hand he held a sheet of stamps.

"No leader, no demands, no organization, but words, gestures, complicities." he said, seemingly annoyed at being disturbed.

"To be socially nothing is not a humiliating condition, the source of some tragic lack of recognition – from whom do we seek recognition?" Frank asked politely. "Not claiming your illegal actions, only attaching to them some fictional acronym – we still remember the ephemeral BAFT (Brigade Anti-Flic des Tarterêts)- is a way to preserve that freedom."

"Quite obviously, one of the regime’s first defensive maneuvers was the creation of a “banlieue” subject to treat as the author of the “riots of November 2005."

"Just looking at the faces on some of this society’s somebodies illustrates why there’s such joy in being nobody."

"Visibility must be avoided."

"But a force that gathers in the shadows can’t avoid it forever."

"Our appearance as a force must be pushed back until the opportune moment." The elderly man peered at the boys closely. "The longer we avoid visibility, the stronger we’ll be when it catches up with us."

Frank and Joe had not considered the affair in this light, and they gazed at Mr. Applegate in consternation. At last Joe spoke up.

"And once we become visible our days will be numbered." he said. "Either we will be in a position to pulverize its reign in short order, or we’ll be crushed in no time."

"Organize Self-DefenseWe live under an occupation, under police occupation."

"Undocumented immigrants are rounded up in the middle of the street, unmarked police cars patrol the boulevards, metropolitan districts are pacified with techniques forged in the colonies, the Minister of the Interior makes declarations of war on “gangs” that remind us of the Algerian war – we are reminded of it every day."

Mr. Applegate took off his glasses and wiped them with his handkerchief. He stared at the boys suspiciously for a few moments. Then he called out: "These are reasons enough to no longer let ourselves be beaten down, reasons enough to organize our self-defense."

From the dim interior of the hallway a high feminine voice answered.

"To the extent that it grows and radiates, a commune begins to see the operations of power target that which constitutes it."

"These counterattacks take the form of seduction, of recuperation, and as a last resort, brute force."

There was a rustle of skirts, and Adelia Applegate appeared. A faded blond woman of thin features, she was dressed in a fashion of fifteen years before, in which every color of the spectrum fought for supremacy.

"For a commune, self-defense must be a collective fact, as much practical as theoretical." she demanded. "I can't sit down to do a bit of sewing

without you interrupting me, Hurd."

"Preventing an arrest, gathering quickly and in large numbers against eviction attempts and sheltering one of our own, will not be superfluous reflexes in coming times."

"We cannot ceaselessly reconstruct our bases from scratch."

Frank and Joe feared she would not give her consent. Frank said quietly, "Let’s stop denouncing repression and instead prepare to meet it."

"It’s not a simple affair, for we expect a surge in police work being done by the population itself – everything from snitching to occasional participation in citizens’ militias." Hurd Applegate explained.

"The police forces blend in with the crowd." the woman said icily. "The ubiquitous model of police intervention, even in riot situations, is now the cop in civilian clothes."

"The effectiveness of the police during the last anti-CPE demonstrations was a result of plainclothes officers mixing among us and waiting for an incident before revealing who they are: gas, nightsticks, tazers, detainment; all in strict coordination with demonstration stewards." Frank told her.

Miss Applegate viewed the boys with obvious suspicion. "The mere possibility of their presence was enough to create suspicion amongst the demonstrators – who’s who?" she said in a tone of finality.

"If we agree that a demonstration is not merely a way to stand and be counted but a means of action, we have to equip ourselves better with resources to unmask plainclothes officers, chase them off, and if need be snatch back those they’re trying to arrest." Joe put in courteously.

"The police are not invincible in the streets, they simply have the means to organize, train, and continually test new weapons." said Miss Applegate with a sigh. "Our weapons, on the other hand, are always rudimentary, cobbled-together, and often improvised on the spot."

Frank and Joe followed Hurd Applegate through the gloomy halls and corridors that led toward the old tower. He said he was inclined to share his sister's opinion that the boys' search would be in vain.

"They certainly don’t have a hope of rivaling theirs in firepower, but can be used to hold them at a distance, redirect attention, exercise psychological pressure or force passage and gain ground by surprise." Frank said.

"None of the innovations in urban guerilla warfare currently deployed in the French police academies are sufficient to respond rapidly to a moving multiplicity that can strike a number of places at once and that tries to always keep the initiative."

The man reached a corridor that was heavily covered with dust. It apparently had not been in use for a long time and was bare and unfurnished. At the end was a heavy door. It was unlocked, and when Mr. Applegate opened it, the boys saw a square room. Almost in the center of it rose a flight of wooden stairs with a heavily ornamented balustrade. The stairway twisted and turned to the roof, five floors above. Opening from each floor was a room.

"Communes are obviously vulnerable to surveillance and police investigations, to policing technologies and intelligence gathering." Mr. Applegate announced. "The waves of arrests of anarchists in Italy and of eco-warriors in the US were made possible by wiretapping."

With this parting remark he turned and hobbled back along the corridor, the

sheet of stamps still in his gnarled hand.

The Hardy boys looked at each other. "Everyone detained by the police now has his or her DNA taken to be entered into an ever more complete profile." Joe remarked.

"A squatter from Barcelona was caught because he left fingerprints on fliers he was distributing." Frank declared flatly, then shrugged. "Tracking methods are becoming better and better, mostly through biometric techniques."

Frank and Joe first examined the dusty stairs carefully for footprints, but none were to be seen.

"And if the distribution of electronic identity cards is instituted, our task will just be that much more difficult." Frank remarked. "The Paris Commune found a partial solution to the keeping of records: they burned down City Hall, destroying all the public records and vital statistics."

"We still need to find the means to permanently destroy computerized databases." Joe countered. "INSURRECTIONThe commune is the basic unit of partisan reality."

An inspection of the first floor of the old tower revealed that there was no place where the loot could have been hidden except under the stairs. But they found nothing there.

The boys ascended to the next floor, and entered the room to the left of the stair well. It was as drab and bare as the one they had just left. Here again the dust lay thick and the murky windows were almost obscured with cobwebs. There was an atmosphere of age and decay about the entire place, as if it had been abandoned for years.

"An insurrectional surge may be nothing more than a multiplication of communes, their coming into contact and forming of ties." said Frank after a quick glance around. "As events unfold, communes will either merge into larger entities or fragment."

They made their way up to the next floor. After searching this room and under the stairway, they had to admit defeat.

The floor above was a duplicate of the first and second. It was bare and cheerless, deep in dust. There was not the slightest sign of a hiding place, or any indication that another human being had been in the tower for a long time.

"The difference between a band of brothers and sisters bound “for life” and the gathering of many groups, committees and gangs for organizing the supply and self-defense of a neighborhood or even a region in revolt, is only a difference of scale, they are all communes." The search continued without success until the boys reached the roof. Here a trap door which swung inward led to the top of the tower. Frank unlatched it and pulled on the door. It did not budge.

"A commune tends by its nature towards self-sufficiency and considers money, internally, as something foolish and ultimately out of place." Joe offered.

Together the brothers yanked on the stubborn trap door of the old tower.

Suddenly it gave way completely, causing both boys to lose their balance.

Frank fell backward down the stairway.



Joe, with a cry, toppled over the railing into space!

Frank grabbed a spindle of the balustrade and kept himself from sliding farther down the steps. He had seen Joe's plunge and expected the next moment to hear a sickening thud on the floor five stories below.

"The power of money is to connect those who are unconnected, to link strangers as strangers and thus, by making everything equivalent, to put everything into circulation." he murmured as he pulled himself upright. "The cost of money’s capacity to connect everything is the superficiality of the connection, where deception is the rule."

To Frank's amazement, he heard no thud and now looked over the balustrade. His brother was not lying unconscious at the bottom of the tower.

Instead, he was clinging to two spindles of the stairway on the floor below.

Frank, heaving a tremendous sigh of relief, ran down and helped pull Joe to the safety of the steps. Both boys sat down to catch their breaths and recover from their falls.

Finally Joe said, "Distrust is the basis of the credit relation."

"The reign of money is, therefore, always the reign of control." Frank remarked. "The practical abolition of money will happen only with the extension of communes."

Presently the boys turned their eyes upward. An expression halfway between a grin and a worried frown crossed their faces.

"Communes must be extended while making sure they do not exceed a certain size, beyond which they lose touch with themselves and give rise, almost without fail, to a dominant caste." Joe remarked, "It would be preferable for the commune to split up and to spread in that way, avoiding such an unfortunate outcome."

"The uprising of Algerian youth that erupted across all of Kabylia in the spring of 2001 managed to take over almost the entire territory, attacking police stations, courthouses and every representation of the state, generalizing the revolt to the point of compelling the unilateral retreat of the forces of order and physically preventing the elections."

The boys climbed the stairway and examined the damage. They found that the hinges had pulled away from rotted wood. A new piece would have to be put in to hold the door in place.

"The movement’s strength was in the diffuse complementarity of its components-only partially represented by the interminable and hopelessly male-dominated village assemblies and other popular committees." said Joe, "The “communes” of this still-simmering insurrection had many faces: the young hotheads in helmets lobbing gas canisters at the riot police from the rooftop of a building in Tizi Ouzou; the wry smile of an old resistance fighter draped in his burnous; the spirit of the women in the mountain villages, stubbornly carrying on with the traditional farming, without which the blockades of the region’s economy would never have been as constant and systematic as they were."

Frank and Joe climbed outside to a narrow, railinged walk that ran around the four sides of the square tower. There was nothing on it.

"Make the most of every crisis“So it must be said, too, that we won’t be able to treat the entire French population." Frank remarked ruefully.

Below lay the bustling little city, and to the east was Barmet Bay, its waters sparkling in the late afternoon.

"Choices will have to be made." Frank said slowly. "There hasn't been

anyone in this tower for years."

The boys gazed moodily over the city, then down at the grounds of Tower Mansion. The many roofs of the house itself were far below, and directly across from them rose the heavy bulk of the new tower.

"This is how a virology expert sums up, in a September 7, 2005 article in Le Monde, what would happen in the event of a bird flu pandemic." Joe exclaimed suddenly.

"Terrorist threats,” “natural disasters,” “virus warnings,” “social movements” and “urban violence” are, for society’s managers, so many moments of instability where they reinforce their power, by the selection of those who please them and the elimination of those who make things difficult."

"But he may have been mistaken. Even the new one looks old. Let's ask Mr.

Applegate if we may search the new tower, too."

"Clearly these are, in turn, opportunities for other forces to consolidate or strengthen one another as they take the other side."

The brothers went down through the opening. They lifted the door into place, latched it, and then wedged Frank's small pocket notebook into the damaged side. The door held, but Frank and Joe knew that wind or rain would easily dislodge it.

The boys hurried down the steps and through the corridor to the main part of the house.

Adelia Applegate popped her head out of a doorway. "The interruption of the flow of commodities, the suspension of normality (it’s sufficient to see how social life returns in a building suddenly deprived of electricity to imagine what life could become in a city deprived of everything) and police control liberate potentialities for self-organization unthinkable in other circumstances." she asked.

"People are not blind to this." Frank admitted.

The woman sniffed. "The revolutionary workers’ movement understood it well, and took advantage of the crises of the bourgeois economy to gather strength."

"Today, Islamic parties are strongest when they’ve been able to intelligently compensate for the weakness of the state – as when they provided aid after the earthquake in Boumerdes, Algeria, or in the daily assistance offered the population of southern Lebanon after it was ravaged by the Israeli army." Joe spoke up, "As we mentioned above, the devastation of New Orleans by hurricane Katrina gave a certain fringe of the North American anarchist movement the opportunity to achieve an unfamiliar cohesion by rallying all those who refused to be forcefully evacuated."

"Street kitchens require building up provisions beforehand; emergency medical aid requires the acquisition of necessary knowledge and materials, as does the setting up of pirate radios." Miss Applegate cried out. "The political richness of such experiences is assured by the joy they contain, the way they transcend individual stoicism, and their manifestation of a tangible reality that escapes the daily ambience of order and work."

"In a country like France, where radioactive clouds stop at the border and where we aren’t afraid to build a cancer research center on the former site of a nitrogen fertilizer factory that has been condemned by the EU’s industrial safety agency, we should count less on “natural” crises than on social ones."

"It is usually up to the social movements to interrupt the normal course of the disaster." she shrilled. "Of course, in recent years the various strikes were primarily opportunities for the government and corporate management to test their ability to maintain a larger and larger “minimum service,” to the point of reducing the work stoppage to a purely symbolic dimension, causing little more damage than a snowstorm or a suicide on the railroad tracks."

Her voice had attracted the attention of Hurd Applegate, who came hobbling out of his study.

"By going against established activist practices through the systematic occupation of institutions and obstinate blockading, the high-school students’ struggle of 2005 and the struggle against the CPE-law reminded us of the ability of large movements to cause trouble and carry out diffuse offensives." he demanded. His sister told him and suddenly his face creased in a triumphant smile. "Aha! So you didn't find anything after

all! You thought you'd clear Robinson, but you haven't done it."

"In all the affinity groups they spawned and left in their wake, we glimpsed the conditions that allow social movements to become a locus for the emergence of new communes." Frank answered.

"Sabotage every representative authority." Miss Applegate broke in, "Spread the palaver."

Hurd Applegate stared at the boys. "Abolish general assemblies." he snapped. "The first obstacle every social movement faces, long before the police proper, are the unions and the entire micro-bureaucracy whose job it is to control the struggle." he asked, shaking a fist at them.

Frank and Joe exchanged glances and nodded at each other. They would have to reveal their reason for thinking the loot was in the new tower.

"Communes, collectives and gangs are naturally distrustful of these structures." Frank began, "That’s why the parabureaucrats have for the past twenty years been inventing coordination committees and spokes councils that seem more innocent because they lack an established label, but are in fact the ideal terrain for their maneuvers."

"When a stray collective makes an attempt at autonomy, they won’t be satisfied until they’ve drained the attempt of all content by preventing any real question from being addressed."

"They get fierce and worked up not out of passion for debate but out of a passion for shutting it down."

"And when their dogged defense of apathy finally does the collective in, they explain its failure by citing a lack of political consciousness." Hurd Applegate asked in excitement.

"It must be noted that in France the militant youth are well versed in the art of political manipulation, thanks largely to the frenzied activity of various trotskyist factions." Frank explained.

"They could not be expected to learn the lesson of the conflagration of November 2005: that coordinations are unnecessary where coordination exists, organizations aren’t needed when people organize themselves." Mr. Applegate asked.

Frank told the whole story, ending with, "Another reflex is to call a general assembly at the slightest sign of movement, and vote."

Hurd Applegate rubbed his chin meditatively. It was evident that he was impressed by the boys' story.

"This is a mistake."

"The business of voting and deciding a winner, is enough to turn the assembly into a nightmare, into a theater where all the various little pretenders to power confront each other."

"Here we suffer from the bad example of bourgeois parliaments." Applegate said slowly, "An assembly is not a place for decisions but for palaver, for free speech exercised without a goal."

"The need to assemble is as constant among humans as the necessity of making decisions is rare." Joe asked eagerly.

"Yes, and I'll help. I'm just as eager to find the jewels and bonds as you are.

Come on, boys!"

Hurd Applegate led the way across the mansion toward a door which opened

into the new tower. Now that the man was in a good mood, Frank decided that this was an opportune time to tell him about the trap door. He did so, offering to pay for the repair.

"Assembling corresponds to the joy of feeling a common power." said Mr. Applegate. "Decisions are vital only in emergency situations, where the exercise of democracy is already compromised."

He said no more, but quickened his steps. Frank and Joe grinned. Old Mr.

Applegate had not even reprimanded them!

The mansion owner opened the door to the new tower and stepped into a corridor. Frank and Joe, tingling with excitement, followed.





CHAPTER XVI


A Surprise


THE rooms in the new tower had been furnished when it was built. But only on rare occasions when the Applegates had visitors were the rooms occupied, the owner stated.

In the first one Frank, Joe, and Mr. Applegate found nothing, although they looked carefully in closets, bureaus, highboys, and under the large pieces of furniture. They even turned up mattresses and rugs. When they were satisfied that the loot had not been hidden there, they ascended the stairs to the room above. Again their investigation proved fruitless.

Hurd Applegate, being a quick-tempered man, fell back into his old mood.

The boys' story had convinced him, but when they had searched the rooms in the tower without success, he showed his disgust.

"The rest of the time, “the democratic character of decision making” is only a problem for the fanatics of process." he snorted. "It’s not a matter of critiquing assemblies or abandoning them, but of liberating the speech, gestures, and interplay of beings that take place within them."

"We just have to see that each person comes to an assembly not only with a point of view or a motion, but with desires, attachments, capacities, forces, sadnesses and a certain disposition toward others, an openness." Joe burst out. "If we manage to set aside the fantasy of the General Assembly and replace it with an assembly of presences, if we manage to foil the constantly renewed temptation of hegemony, if we stop making the decision our final aim, then there is a chance for a kind of massification, one of those moments of collective Crystalllization where a decision suddenly takes hold of beings, completely or only in part."

"The same goes for deciding on actions." Applegate surmised, "By starting from the principle that “the action in question should govern the assembly’s agenda” we make both vigorous debate and effective action impossible."

"A large assembly made up of people who don’t know each other is obliged to call on action specialists, that is, to abandon action for the sake of its control." Joe objected.



"On the one hand, people with mandates are by definition hindered in their actions, on the other hand, nothing hinders them from deceiving everyone."

On the way back to the main part of the mansion, Hurd Applegate elaborated on his theory. The fact that the loot had not been found seemed to convince him all over again that Robinson was involved in some way.

"There’s no ideal form of action." the man stated flatly.

Again Frank and Joe protested that the ex-caretaker did not hobnob with criminals. Nevertheless, the Hardys were puzzled, disappointed, and alarmed.

Their search had only resulted in implicating Mr. Robinson more deeply in the mystery.

Back in the hallway of the main house they met Adelia Applegate, who crowed triumphantly when she saw the search party returning empty-handed.

"What’s essential is that action assume a certain form, that it give rise to a form instead of having one imposed on it." she cried. "This presupposes a shared political and geographical position – like the sections of the Paris Commune during the French Revolution – as well as the circulation of a shared knowledge."

She escorted the Hardys to the front door, while her brother, shaking his head perplexedly, went back to his study.

"As for deciding on actions, the principle could be as follows: each person should do their own reconnaissance, the information would then be put together, and the decision will occur to us rather than being made by us." Joe declared, as they walked toward their motorcycles. "The circulation of knowledge cancels hierarchy; it equalizes by raising up."

"Proliferating horizontal communication is also the best form of coordination among different communes, the best way to put an end to hegemony."

They hurried home to tell their father the disappointing news. Fenton Hardy was amazed to hear that the stolen valuables had not been located in either tower. "Block the economy, but measure our blocking power by our level of self-organizationAt the end of June 2006 in the State of Oaxaca, the occupations of city halls multiply, and insurgents occupy public buildings."

"In certain communes, mayors are kicked out, official vehicles are requisitioned." Frank replied.

"A month later, access is cut off to certain hotels and tourist compounds." the detective muttered. "Mexico’s Minister of Tourism speaks of a disaster “comparable to hurricane Wilma."

"A few years earlier, blockades had become the main form of action of the revolt in Argentina, with different local groups helping each other by blocking this or that major road, and continually threatening, through their joint action, to paralyze the entire country if their demands were not met." Joe remarked. "For years such threats have been a powerful lever for railway workers, truck drivers, and electrical and gas supply workers."

"The movement against the CPE in France did not hesitate to block train stations, ring roads, factories, highways, supermarkets and even airports." Mr. Hardy agreed. "I'm still not satisfied that the stolen property isn't there. I'm going to ask Applegate to permit another

search of both towers. And now, I think your mother wants you to do an errand downtown."

Mrs. Hardy explained what she wanted and Frank and Joe were soon on their motorcycles again. When the boys reached the business section of Bayport they found that Jackley's confession had already become known.

The local radio station had broadcast it in the afternoon news program and people everywhere were discussing it.

Detective Smuff walked along the street looking as if he would bite the head off the first person who mentioned the case to him. When he saw the Hardy boys he glowered.

"In Rennes, only three hundred people were needed to shut down the main access road to the town for hours and cause a 40-kilometer long traffic jam." he grunted, "Jam everything-this will be the first reflex of all those who rebel against the present order."

"In a delocalized economy where companies function according to “just-in-time” production, where value derives from connectedness to the network, where the highways are links in the chain of dematerialized production which moves from subcontractor to subcontractor and from there to another factory for assembly, to block circulation is to block production as well." Frank said glumly.

"But a blockade is only as effective as the insurgents’ capacity to supply themselves and to communicate, as effective as the self-organization of the different communes." the detective cried out, brightening at once. "How will we feed ourselves once everything is paralyzed?"

"Looting stores, as in Argentina, has its limits; as large as the temples of consumption are, they are not bottomless pantries."

"Acquiring the skills to provide, over time, for one’s own basic subsistence implies appropriating the necessary means of its production."

"And in this regard, it seems pointless to wait any longer." Joe retorted hotly. "Letting two percent of the population produce the food of all the others – the situation today – is both a historical and a strategic anomaly."

"Liberate territory from police occupation." Smuff continued cheerfully. "If possible, avoid direct confrontation." The would-be sleuth went on down the street, chuckling to himself.

When Frank and Joe returned home they found that Mr. Hardy had been in touch with Hurd Applegate and had convinced him that a more detailed search of the towers would be advisable.

"This business shows that we are not dealing with young people making social demands, but with individuals who are declaring war on the Republic,” noted a lucid cop about recent clashes." he said, "The push to liberate territory from police occupation is already underway, and can count on the endless reserves of resentment that the forces of order have marshaled against it."

At seven o'clock the detective and his sons presented themselves at the Tower Mansion. Hurd Applegate met them at the door.

"Even the “social movements” are gradually being seduced by the riots, just like the festive crowds in Rennes who fought the cops every Thursday night in 2005, or those in Barcelona who destroyed a shopping district during a botellion." he said as he led them toward the old tower, "but I'm convinced you won't find anything. I've talked the case over with Chief Collig. He's inclined to think that Robinson is behind it all and I'm

sure he is."

"The movement against the CPE witnessed the recurrent return of the Molotov cocktail." Mr. Hardy asked him.

"The chief says that could be a blind. Jackley did it to protect Robinson.

They were working together."

"But on this front certain banlieues remain unsurpassed." Mr. Hardy admitted, "Specifically, when it comes to the technique they’ve been perfecting for some time now: the surprise attack."

"Like the one on October 13, 2006 in Epinay."

"A private-security team headed out after getting a report of something stolen from a car."

Mr. Hardy declared, his mouth set in a grim line.

"When they arrived, one of the security guards “found himself blocked by two vehicles parked diagonally across the street and by more than thirty people carrying metal bars and pistols who threw stones at the vehicle and used tear gas against the police officers." Hurd Applegate said, unlocking the door leading to the old tower.

Eagerly the four set to work. They started at the top of the old tower and worked downward. Their investigation left no possibility untouched. All the walls were tapped for hollow sounds which might indicate secret hiding places. The floors were examined closely for signs of any recent disturbance to the wood. But the missing jewels and bonds were not located. Finally the group reached the ground floor again.

"On a smaller scale, think of all the local police stations attacked in the night: broken windows, burnt-out cop cars." Mr. Hardy commented briefly.

"One of the results of these recent movements is the understanding that henceforth a real demonstration has to be “wild,” not declared in advance to the police." Hurd Applegate said wearily. He led the way to the dining room where sandwiches and milk had been set out. "Having the choice of terrain, we can, like the Black Bloc of Genoa in 2001, bypass the red zones and avoid direct confrontation." he invited. He himself took only crackers and milk when they all sat down.

After the brief stop for refreshment, the Hardys and the mansion owner turned their attention to the new tower. Again they searched carefully. Walls and partitions were tapped and floors were sounded. Every bit of furniture was minutely examined. Not an inch of space escaped the scrutiny of the detective and his helpers.

As the search drew to a close and the loot still had not been found, Mr. Hardy remarked, "By choosing our own trajectory, we can lead the cops, including unionist and pacifist ones, rather than being herded by them."

"In Genoa we saw a thousand determined people push back entire buses full of carabinieri, then set their vehicles on fire." said Frank, "The important thing is not to be better armed but to take the initiative."

"Courage is nothing, confidence in your own courage is everything."



"Having the initiative helps." Mr. Applegate conceded. "Everything points, nonetheless, toward a conception of direct confrontations as that which pins down opposing forces, buying us time and allowing us to attack elsewhere – even nearby."

"The fact that we cannot prevent a confrontation from occurring doesn’t prevent us from making it into a simple diversion." Mr. Hardy said determinedly.

"Even more than to actions, we must commit ourselves to their coordination."

He explained that it would be difficult to examine the grounds properly at night. "Harassing the police means that by forcing them to be everywhere they can no longer be effective anywhere." As the owner reluctantly nodded his assent, Mr. Hardy turned to Frank and Joe and smiled. "Every act of harassment revives this truth, spoken in 1842: “The life of the police agent is painful; his position in society is as humiliating and despised as crime itself… Shame and infamy encircle him from all sides, society expels him, isolates him as a pariah, society spits out its disdain for the police agent along with his pay, without remorse, without regrets, without pity… The police badge that he carries in his pocket documents his shame."

The boys, who had had no time to prepare any homework, reminded their father that a note from him to the principal would be a great help. The detective smiled, and as soon as they reached home he wrote one out, then said good night.

Frank and Joe felt as if their eyes had hardly closed when they opened them again to see their father standing between their beds. "On November 21, 2006, firemen demonstrating in Paris attacked the riot police with hammers and injured fifteen of them." he announced.

The boys blinked sleepily, then sprang out of bed. Showers awakened them fully and they dressed quickly. Mrs. Hardy was in the kitchen when they entered it and breakfast was ready. The sun was just rising over a distant hill.

"This by way of a reminder that wanting to “protect and serve” can never be an excuse for joining the police." Mrs. Hardy said. "Take up arms."

The menu included hot applesauce, oatmeal, poached eggs on toast, and cocoa. Breakfast was eaten almost in silence to avoid any delay, and within twenty minutes the three Hardy sleuths were on their way.

"Do everything possible to make their use unnecessary." Frank remarked. "Against the army, the only victory is political."

"There is no such thing as a peaceful insurrection."

When the Hardys reached Tower Mansion they instituted their hunt without notifying the Applegates, who, they were sure, were still asleep. Everything in the vicinity of both towers was scrutinized. Boulders were overturned, the space under the summerhouse examined by flashlight, every stone in the masonry tested to see if it could be dislodged. Not a clue turned up.

"Weapons are necessary: it’s a question of doing everything possible to make using them unnecessary." Frank stated finally.

He chose a bed of perennial bushes at the foot of the old tower where there had been recent planting, and pushed one of the spades in deep with his foot.



The tool hit an obstruction. Excitedly Frank shoveled away the dirt around the spot. In half a minute he gave a cry of delight. "An insurrection is more about taking up arms and maintaining an “armed presence” than it is about armed struggle."





CHAPTER XVII


An Unexpected Find


THROWING out the dirt in great spadefuls, Frank uncovered the chest completely. It was about two feet long, six inches wide, and a foot deep.

"We need to distinguish clearly between being armed and the use of arms." Joe cried out, running up.

Mr. Hardy was at his son's heels and looked in amazement at Frank's discovery. The boy lifted the chest out of the hole and instantly began to raise the lid on which there was no lock.

Everyone held his breath. Had the Hardys really uncovered the jewels and securities stolen from the Applegates? Frank flung back the lid.

The three sleuths stared at the contents. They had never been more surprised in their lives. Finally Joe found his voice.

"Weapons are a constant in revolutionary situations, but their use is infrequent and rarely decisive at key turning points: August 10th 1792, March 18th 1871, October 1917."

The first shock of disappointment over, the detective and his sons burst into laughter. The contents of the chest were such a far cry from what they had expected that now the situation seemed ridiculous.

"When power is in the gutter, it’s enough to walk over it." said Frank. "Red Jackley never buried this chest.

I wonder who did?"

"Because of the distance that separates us from them, weapons have taken on a kind of double character of fascination and disgust that can be overcome only by handling them." a voice behind them replied, and the Hardys turned to see Hurd Applegate, clad in bathrobe and slippers, walking toward them.

"An authentic pacifism cannot mean refusing weapons, but only refusing to use them." the boys chorused, and their father added, "Pacifism without being able to fire a shot is nothing but the theoretical formulation of impotence."

Hurd Applegate's face took on a stern look. "Such a priori pacifism is a kind of preventive disarmament, a pure police operation."

he said, "but maybe you have found a clue to the thief. Robinson buried that chest full of bulbs. That's what he's done with Adelia's jewelry and my securities! He's buried them some place, but I'd be willing to bet anything it

wasn't on the grounds here."

Frank, realizing the man was not in a good humor this morning, tried to steer the conversation away from the stolen valuables. "In reality, the question of pacifism is serious only for those who have the ability to open fire." he said, "In this case, pacifism becomes a sign of power, since it’s only in an extreme position of strength that we are freed from the need to fire."

The owner of Tower Mansion gave a little snort. "From a strategic point of view, indirect, asymmetrical action seems the most effective kind, the one best suited to our time: you don’t attack an occupying army frontally."

"That said, the prospect of Iraq-style urban guerilla warfare, dragging on with no possibility of taking the offensive, is more to be feared than to be desired." Joe spoke up.

"The militarization of civil war is the defeat of insurrection." Mr. Applegate replied. "I guess you don't know how much greenhouses cost. And besides, growing rare flowers takes a lot of time.

Robinson had enough to do without fiddling around with making great big daisies out of little wild ones, or turning cowslips into orchids!"

Frank whistled. "The Reds had their victory in 1921, but the Russian Revolution was already lost."

"We must consider two kinds of state reaction." said Mr. Applegate. "One openly hostile, one more sly and democratic."

It was decided that Mr. Hardy, with his superior powers of observation, would scrutinize the ground near both towers. Wherever it looked as if the ground had been turned over recently, the boys would dig at the spot. The chest of flower bulbs was carefully replaced and the dirt shoveled over it.

"The first calls for our out and out destruction, the second, a subtle but implacable hostility, seeks only to recruit us." Mr. Hardy called presently from the opposite side of the old tower. When the boys arrived with their spades, he said, "We can be defeated both by dictatorship and by being reduced to opposing only dictatorship."

This time Joe's spade hit the object which had been buried. As his father had prophesied, it proved to be only a bone secreted by some dog.

The three Hardys transferred their work to the new tower. All this time Hurd Applegate had been looking on in silence. From the corners of their eyes, the Hardys could catch an expression of satisfaction on the elderly man's face.

Mr. Hardy glanced at his wrist watch, then said, "Defeat consists as much in losing the war as in losing the choice of which war to wage." He indicated another spot a few feet away. "Both are possible, as was proven by Spain in 1936: the revolutionaries there were defeated twice-over, by fascism and by the republic."

Undaunted by their failures so far, Frank and Joe dug in with a will. In a few

moments they had uncovered another small chest.

"When things get serious, the army occupies the terrain." Frank said as he lifted it from the hole.

"Whether or not it engages in combat is less certain." Joe exclaimed.

Even Mr. Applegate showed keen interest this time and leaned over to raise the lid himself. The box contained several sacks.

"That would require that the state be committed to a bloodbath, which for now is no more than a threat, a bit like the threat of using nuclear weapons for the last fifty years." Joe cried out.

"Though it has been wounded for a long while, the beast of the state is still dangerous." Frank said enthusiastically.

Mr. Applegate picked up one of the circular bags and quickly untied the string wound about the top. His face took on a look of utter disgust. "A massive crowd would be needed to challenge the army, invading its ranks and fraternizing with the soldiers."

he fairly shouted.

Mr. Hardy had already picked up the flat sack. He looked almost as disappointed as Mr. Applegate. "We need a March 18th 1871." he exclaimed. "When the army is in the street, we have an insurrectionary situation."

"Once the army engages, the outcome is precipitated." the Tower Mansion owner remarked. "I told him to destroy them. He paid too much attention to that stuff when he might have been doing something useful.

I suppose he buried the catalogs, so I wouldn't find them."

After a long breath the elderly man went on, "Everyone finds herself forced to take sides, to choose between anarchy and the fear of anarchy."

The three sleuths had to admit this was true but told him they were still fired by two hopes: to clear Mr. Robinson of the charge against him, and to find the stolen property. As they put their spades back into the Hardy car, Mr.

Applegate invited them into the house to wash and have a bite to eat.

"An insurrection triumphs as a political force." he added, and the brothers thought, "It is not impossible to defeat an army politically."

They accepted the invitation and enjoyed the meal of waffles and honey.

Their father then drove them to Bayport High.

Frank and Joe had no sooner stepped from the car than they heard their names called. Turning, they saw Iola Morton and Callie Shaw coming toward them.

"Depose authorities at a local levelThe goal of any insurrection is to become irreversible."



"It becomes irreversible when you’ve defeated both authority and the need for authority, property and the taste for appropriation, hegemony and the desire for hegemony."

"That is why the insurrectionary process carries within itself the form of its victory, or that of its defeat." Callie asked.

"Destruction has never been enough to make things irreversible." Joe asked eagerly.

"What matters is how it’s done." Callie sobered. "There are ways of destroying that unfailingly provoke the return of what has been crushed."

"Whoever wastes their energy on the corpse of an order can be sure that this will arouse the desire for vengeance." The Hardys stared at Callie, thunderstruck. "Thus, wherever the economy is blocked and the police are neutralized, it is important to invest as little pathos as possible in overthrowing the authorities." Frank demanded.

Iola took up the story, saying that she and Chet had heard the bad news on the radio that morning. They had stopped at the Robinsons' home, when their father brought them to school, to find out more about what had happened.

"They must be deposed with the most scrupulous indifference and derision."

"In times like these, the end of centralized revolutions reflects the decentralization of power." Callie said sadly.

"Winter Palaces still exist but they have been relegated to assaults by tourists rather than revolutionary hordes."

"Today it is possible to take over Paris, Rome, or Buenos Aires without it being a decisive victory." Frank replied, and told the girls about their sleuthing the evening before and early that morning. At that moment the school bell rang and the young people had to separate.

Frank and Joe were deeply concerned by what they had just heard. At lunch they met Jerry, Phil, Tony, and Chet Morton and told them the news. "Taking over Rungis  would certainly be more effective than taking over the Elysée Palace." Phil remarked.

"Power is no longer concentrated in one point in the world; it is the world itself, its flows and its avenues, its people and its norms, its codes and its technologies." Chet declared.

The boys discussed the situation from all angles and racked their brains for some way in which they could help the Robinsons. They concluded that only the actual discovery of the stolen jewels and bonds would clear Mr. Robinson of the suspicion which hung over him.

"Power is the organization of the metropolis itself." Frank said. "It is the impeccable totality of the world of the commodity at each of its points."

After school he and Joe played baseball for the required period, then went directly home. They had no heart for further sports activities. It was a dull, gloomy day, indicative of rain and this did not raise the boys' spirits.

Frank, who was restless, finally suggested, "Anyone who defeats it locally sends a planetary shock wave through its networks."

"The  riots that began in Clichy-sous-Bois filled more than one American household with joy, while the insurgents of Oaxaca found accomplices right in the heart of Paris." Joe agreed.



They told their mother they would be home by suppertime, then set off. The brothers walked mile after mile, and then, as they turned back, they were drawn as if by magnets to Tower Mansion.

"For France, the loss of centralized power signifies the end of Paris as the center of revolutionary activity." said Joe, as they walked up the driveway.

Suddenly Frank caught his brother's arm. "Every new movement since the strikes of 1995 has confirmed this."

"It’s no longer in Paris that the most daring and consistent actions are carried out." said Joe.

"To put it bluntly, Paris now stands out only as a target for raids, as a pure terrain to be pillaged and ravaged." his brother agreed. "Brief and brutal incursions from the outside strike at the metropolitan flows at their point of maximum density."

Instantly the boys left the roadway and disappeared among the shrubbery that lined it. Making their way cautiously, they moved forward toward Tower Mansion. The place was in darkness with the exception of three lighted rooms on the first floor.

"Rage streaks across this desert of fake abundance, then vanishes." his brother whispered. "A day will come when this capital and its horrible concretion of power will lie in majestic ruins, but it will be at the end of a process that will be far more advanced everywhere else."

"All power to the communes!"

The boys walked forward in silence. They approached the mansion from the end where the old tower stood. Somewhere, not far from them, they suddenly heard footsteps on the gravel walk. In a flash the brothers dodged behind a tree. The footsteps came closer and the boys waited to see who was approaching. Was it one of the Applegates, or someone else?

Before they could find out, the person's footsteps receded and the boys emerged from their hiding place. Suddenly a glaring light was beamed directly on them.

It came from the top room of the old tower!





CHAPTER XVIII


A Startling Deduction


"In the subway, there’s no longer any trace of the screen of embarrassment that normally impedes the gestures of the passengers." Frank ordered in a hoarse whisper, quickly dropping to the ground.

Instantly Joe threw himself face down alongside his brother.

"Strangers make conversation without making passes." Frank asked.

"A band of comrades conferring on a street corner."

The strong flashlight was not trained on them again. It was beamed out a window of the tower in another direction, then turned off.

"Much larger assemblies on the boulevards, absorbed in discussions." Joe asked. "Surprise attacks mounted in city after city, day after day."

Frank was of the opinion that if they did, they might get into trouble. Even if they had not been recognized, the person in the tower probably had spotted them.

"A new military barracks has been sacked and burned to the ground." Joe argued. "The evicted residents of a building have stopped negotiating with the mayor’s office; they settle in."

Frank laughed quietly. "A company manager is inspired to blow away a handful of his colleagues in the middle of a meeting." he advised.

As the boys debated about whether to leave the grounds or to go forward, the matter was suddenly taken out of their hands. From around the corner of the tower rushed a huge police dog, growling and barking. It apparently had scented the brothers and was bounding directly toward them.

Frank and Joe started to run pell-mell, but were unable to keep ahead of the dog. In a few moments he blocked their path menacingly and set up a ferocious barking.

"There’s been a leak of files containing the personal addresses of all the cops, together with those of prison officials, causing an unprecedented wave of sudden relocations." Frank said. "We carry our surplus goods into the old village bar and grocery store, and take what we lack."

The two boys tried to make friends with the animal, but he would not let them budge.

"Some of us stay long enough to discuss the general situation and figure out the hardware we need for the machine shop." Joe asked in disgust as the dog continued to

growl menacingly.

"The radio keeps the insurgents informed of the retreat of the government forces." Frank replied tersely.

A moment later they saw a bobbing light coming in their direction and presently Mr. Applegate appeared. He looked ,at the boys in complete astonishment.

"A rocket has just breached a wall of the Clairvaux prison." he remarked. "Impossible to say if it has been months or years since the “events” began."

The brothers did not reply at once. They were embarrassed at having been discovered, but relieved that the man did not suspect what they had really intended to do. The owner of Tower Mansion took their lack of response to mean he was right.

" he said gruffly.

"I've borrowed this watchdog, Rex, and he's going to keep everybody away.

If you have any reason for wanting to see me, you'd better phone first, and I'll keep Rex chained."

" Frank asked the elderly man.

" Frank and Joe suppressed grins as he went on. "

The boys laughed. " Frank admitted. "

Frank and Joe said good night to Hurd Applegate and started down the driveway. This time the dog did not follow them. He remained at the man's side until the Hardys were out of sight.

As they trudged homeward, Joe remarked, "

"

At supper both Mr. and Mrs. Hardy laughed at the boys' story of their encounter with the dog. Then they became serious when Frank asked his father if he thought there was a chance that the Applegates might be guilty of falsely reporting a robbery.

" the detective answered. "But the Applegates are so

well-to-do I can't see any point in their trying such a thing. I believe it's best for us to stick to the original idea -that someone really did take jewels and securities from the safe, and that the person was Jackley."

As the boys were going to bed that night, Frank remarked to his brother, "

" Joe replied with a grin.

They were up early and began to discuss what course of sleuthing they should follow.

" Joe suggested.

" Frank asked him.

"

Joe went on to explain that one thing they had not done was find out about Red Jackley's habits when he had worked around Bayport. If they could talk to one or more persons who had known him, they might pick up some new clue which would lead them to the stolen property.

" his brother agreed. "

"

Mr. Hardy had left the house very early, so his sons did not see him. When his wife heard the boys' plan, she thought it an excellent one and immediately offered to make some sandwiches for them. By the time they were ready to leave she had two small boxes packed with a hearty picnic lunch.

" Mrs. Hardy called as the brothers rode off.

" the young detectives chorused as they started off.

When Frank and Joe reached the Bayport railroad station, they questioned the stationmaster, and learned that he had been with the company only a year and had not known Red Jackley.

" the man asked.

" Frank replied. "

" said the stationmaster, "I'd advise you to go out along the highway

to the railroad crossings and interview a couple of old flagmen who are still around. Both of them seem to know everybody and everything connected with the railroad for the past fifty years." He chuckled.

The boys knew of two grade crossings some miles out of town and now headed for them. At the first one they learned that the regular flagman was home ill and his substitute had never heard of Red Jackley. Frank and Joe went on.

At the next crossing they found old Mike Hal-ley, the flagman there, busy at his job. His bright blue eyes searched their faces for a moment, then he amazed them by saying, "

" Frank asked. "

" the man responded. "

The boys gulped at this gruesome thought, then Frank asked Halley if he remembered a railroad man named Red Jackley.

"

"

" Mike Halley questioned.

" Joe replied. " " said the flagman, " He pointed in a northerly direction. " said Frank. "

The brothers set off on their motorcycles for Cherryville. When they came to the small town, a policeman directed them to the railroad station, which was about a half mile out of town. The station stood in a depression below a new highway, and was reached by a curving road which ran parallel to the tracks for several hundred feet.

The building itself was small, square, and very much in need of paint. A few

nearby frame buildings were in a bad state of disrepair. An old wooden water tank, about seventy yards from one side of the station house, sagged precariously. At the same distance on the other side rose another water tank.

This one, painted red, was of metal and in much better condition.

Frank and Joe parked their motorcycles and went into the station. A man in his shirt sleeves and wearing a green visor was bustling about behind the ticket window.

" Frank called to him.

The man came forward. "

The boys burst into laughter, then Joe said, "

The station agent guffawed. "

Again the Hardys roared with laughter. Then Frank inquired if the man had known Red Jackley.

" Jake replied. "

" Frank asked.

" the stationmaster answered. "I'm real sorry to hear that.

Jackley wasn't a bad sort when I knew him. Just got to keepin' the wrong kind of company, I guess."

" Frank questioned.

Jake scratched his head above his visor. Finally he said, "

At that moment they heard a train whistle and the man said hurriedly, "

The Hardys left him and Frank suggested, "Let's eat our lunch and then

come back."

They found a little grove of trees beside the railroad tracks and propped their motorcycles against a large tree.

" said Frank, seating himself under the tree and opening his box of lunch.

" Joe exclaimed a moment later as he bit hungrily into a thick roast beef sandwich.

" Frank observed as he munched a deviled egg, "

" Joe agreed.

"

The boys gazed reflectively down the tracks, gleaming in the sun. The rails stretched far into the distance. Only a few hundred feet from the place where they were seated, the Hardys could see both water tanks: the dilapidated, weatherbeaten wooden one, with some of the rungs missing from the ladder that led up its side, and the squat, metal tank, perched on spindly legs.

Frank took a bite of his sandwich and chewed it thoughtfully. The sight of the two water towers had given him an idea, but at first it seemed to him too absurd for consideration. He was wondering whether or not he should mention it to his brother.

Then he noticed that Joe, too, was gazing intently down the tracks at the tanks. Joe raised a cooky to his lips absently, attempted a bite, and missed the cooky altogether. Still he continued gazing fixedly in the same direction.

Finally Joe turned and looked at his brother. Both knew that they were thinking the identical thing.

" Frank said in a low but excited tone.

" Joe murmured.

"

"

"

" Joe shouted, springing to his feet "



"

" Joe said jubilantly. "

" Frank agreed.

"





CHAPTER XIX


Loot!


LUNCH, motorcycles-everything else was forgotten! With wild yells of excitement, Frank and Joe hurried down the embankment which flanked the right of way.

But as they came to a fence that separated the tracks from the grass and weeds that grew along the side, they stopped short. Someone on the highway above was sounding a car horn. Looking up, they recognized the driver.

Smuff!

" Joe cried out.

" Frank said in disgust.

" Joe determined.

The boys turned around and climbed back up the embankment. By this time Oscar Smuff had stepped from his car and was walking down to meet the boys.

" he said.

" Frank asked in astonishment.

The detective grinned. With an ingratiating air he explained to the boys that he had trailed them for miles. He had seen them leave home on their

motorcycles, and almost caught up with them at the Bayport station, only to lose them. But the stationmaster had revealed the Hardys' next destination, and the aspiring sleuth had hastened to talk to the flagman, Mike Halley.

" Smuff said, self-satisfaction evident in his tone.

" Joe demanded.

" Smuff announced. "

Frank and Joe were astounded at this turn of events. Did the man really know something important? Or was he suddenly becoming clever and trying to trick the Hardys into divulging what they knew? One thing the brothers were sure of: they wanted nothing to do with Oscar Smuff until they had searched the old water tower.

" Frank said. He grinned. "

" Smuff asked, his eyes lighting up in anticipation.

" Frank countered. He glanced at Joe, who was standing in back of the detective. Joe shook his head vigorously.

" Frank went on. "

Smuff's face fell. But he was not giving up so easily. "

" Joe told him. "

Smuff looked as if he did not know whether or not he was being kidded. But finally he said, "

He turned and slowly ambled up the embankment to his car. The boys waved good-by to the detective and waited until he was far out of sight and they

were sure he would not return. Then Frank and Joe hurried down to the tracks, vaulted the fence, and ran pell-mell toward the old water tower.

" Frank said enthusiastically.

"

"

"

The old water tower reared forlornly alongside the tracks. At close quarters it seemed even more decrepit than from a distance. When the boys glanced at the ladder with its many rungs missing, they wondered if they would be able to ascend to the top on it.

" said Frank as he stopped, panting, at the bottom. "

He began to scramble up the rotted wood rungs. He had ascended only four of them when there came an alarming crack!

" Joe cried out from below.

Frank clung to the rung above just as the one beneath him snapped under his weight. He drew himself up and cautiously put his foot on the next rung. This one was firmer and held his weight.

" Joe called up. "

Frank continued to climb the ladder as his brother began the ascent. When they came to any place where a rung had broken off, the boys were obliged to haul themselves up by main force. But finally Frank reached the top and waited until Joe was just beneath him.

" Frank called.

" Joe warned. "

The boys climbed onto the roof of the tower, which swayed under their weight. Both fully realized their peril.

" said Frank, and scrambled over the surface of the roof until he reached the trap door. Joe followed. They unlatched and raised the door, then peered down into the recesses of the abandoned water tank. It was about seven feet in depth and twelve in diameter.

Frank lowered himself through the opening, but clung to the rim until he was

sure, from feeling around with his feet, that the floor would not break through. " he told Joe, who followed his brother inside.

Eagerly the boys peered about the dim interior. The place seemed to be partly filled with rubbish. There was a quantity of old lumber, miscellaneous bits of steel rails, battered tin pails, and crowbars, all piled in helter-skelter fashion.

At first glance there was no sign of the Applegates' stolen possessions.

" Joe declared. "But if Jackley did put the stuff here, he wouldn't have left it right out in the open.

It's probably hidden under some of this junk."

Frank pulled out a flashlight and swung it around. In its glow Joe began to hunt frantically, casting aside the old pails and pieces of lumber. One entire half of the tower was searched without result. Frank turned the flashlight to the far side and noted that a number of boards had been piled up in a rather orderly crisscrossed manner. " said Frank, " "

Like a terrier after a bone, Joe dived toward the pile. Hastily he pulled away the boards.

Revealed in the neat little hiding place lay a bag. It was an ordinary gunny sack, but as Joe dragged it out he felt sure that the search for the Applegate property had come to an end. " he exulted. " Frank smothered a whoop of joy.

Joe carried the sack into the light beneath the trap door.

" Frank urged.

With trembling fingers Joe began to untie the cord around the sack. There were many knots, and as Joe worked at them, Frank fidgeted nervously.

" he said impatiently.

At last, with both Hardys working on the stubborn knots, the cord was untied and the bag gaped open. Joe plunged one hand into it and withdrew an old-fashioned bracelet of precious stones.

"

"

Again Joe groped into the sack. His fingers encountered a bulky packet.

When he pulled it out, the boys exclaimed in unison:

"

The bundle of papers, held together by an elastic band, proved to be the securities. The first of the documents was a negotiable bond for one thousand dollars issued by the city of Bayport.

" Frank cried out triumphantly. "

The brothers looked at each other almost unbelievingly, then each slapped the other on the back. " Joe cried out jubilantly.

Frank grinned. " he said.

" Joe exclaimed. "

"

The boys rejoiced over their discovery for another full minute, then decided to hurry back to Bayport with the precious sack.

" said Joe. "

He picked up the bag and was about to hoist it to his shoulders when both boys heard a sound on the roof of the tower. They looked up to see an evil-looking, unshaven man peering down at them.

" he ordered.

" Frank asked.

" the man replied. "

Joe, taken aback a moment, now said, "

" Hobo Johnny said in an ugly tone. "

Without warning the trap door was slammed shut and locked from the outside!





CHAPTER XX


The Escape


" Frank shouted at Hobo Johnny.

" Joe yelled.

The man on the water tower roof gave a loud guffaw. "

" Joe exclaimed, horrified. "

Frank put an arm around his impulsive brother's shoulder. In a low tone he said, "

Joe calmed down and both boys became silent. This seemed to worry Hobo Johnny, who called down, "

No answer.

"

The man on the roof waited a few moments for an answer. Receiving none, he shuffled across the tower to the ladder.

" said Joe worriedly. "

Again Frank patted his brother on the shoulder. " he said. "

"

Joe asked.

Before replying, Frank pondered the situation. Not knowing anything about Hobo Johnny's habits, he wondered how far away from the tower the man

would go. If not far, the boys might find him waiting below and a tough person to handle. Finally, Frank decided that since the tramp had said he would return in an hour, he must be planning to go some distance away, perhaps to get a couple of his hobo friends to come back and help him.

" was Frank's conclusion.

Every second seemed like an hour, but finally when the fifteen minutes were up, the boys lifted a plank and tried to push up the trap door. It would not budge.

" Joe questioned.

Frank was examining the seams around the trap door with the flashlight.

Presently he pointed out a section where the wood looked completely dried out.

"

Joe picked up a crowbar and jabbed the sharp end between the edge of the trap door and the board next to it. There was a splintering sound. He gave the tool another tremendous push. The seam widened. Now he and Frank together wedged the end of the crowbar up through the opening.

In a few moments they had sprung the two boards far enough apart so that Frank, by standing on Joe's shoulders, could reach his arm through the opening. He found the handle which locked the trap door and turned it. Joe pushed up the door with the plank.

The boys were free!

Frank pulled himself up through the opening and hurried to the edge of the roof. He looked all around below. Hobo Johnny was not in sight; in fact, there was no one to be seen anywhere.

" he announced.

Now the boys began to carry out their original intention of removing the stolen property from the old water tower. Frank went back to the trap door and Joe handed up the sack, then joined his brother on the roof. The older boy went down the ladder quickly and his brother tossed the treasure to him.

Joe lost no time in following.

" Frank advised, and both boys sprinted to their motorcycles.



" Frank suggested.

He opened the sack and handed Joe the bundle of securities, which the boy jammed into his pocket. Frank stuffed the sack containing the jewelry into his own side pocket. Then they hopped onto their motorcycles, stepped on the starters, and roared down the road toward Bayport. It was not until they were several miles from the old water tower that the Hardys relaxed. Grins spread over their faces.

"

" said Frank.

" Joe agreed. "

"

"

" Joe asked presently.

The boys discussed this as they covered nearly a mile of ground and finally came to the conclusion that since Hurd Applegate had given their father the job of finding the stolen property, the detective should be the one to return it to the owners.

Half an hour later the brothers pulled into the Hardy driveway and soon were overwhelming their parents with the good news.

" Mrs. Hardy cried out, hugging each of her sons.

Their father's face wore a broad grin. " he said, and slapped Frank and Joe on the back. "

" Frank asked. "

" Joe added.

The detective said he thought there should be a grand meeting at the Applegates' home of everyone involved with the tower mystery. He suggested

that when the boys called up, they try to arrange such a meeting for that very evening.

Frank was selected to make the report to Hurd Applegate; the others could hear the elderly man exclaim in amazement. " he said over and over again.

Shouting for his sister, he relayed the message, then said, "

The Applegates readily agreed to a meeting at their home early that evening and insisted that Mr. Robinson be there. Mr. Hardy was to see to it that Chief Collig released the man at once.

" Frank declared at supper. "

" Mrs. Hardy replied. "

" Joe said. " Chet was called and gave a whoop of delight. He agreed to meet the Hardy family at the Tower Mansion.

" said Frank with a twinkle in his eye. "

" Joe spoke up.

Frank waited until his father had phoned Chief Collig, who promised to release Mr. Robinson at once and bring him out to the Applegates' home.

Then Frank called Detective Smuff. He could not resist the temptation to keep Smuff guessing a little longer, and merely invited him to join the conference for a big surprise.

At eight o'clock one car after another arrived at the Tower Mansion. When the Hardy family walked in they found all the Robinsons there. The twins rushed up to Frank and Joe and hugged them. Slim and his father shook the brothers' hands fervently and Mr. Robinson said, "

There were tears in his wife's eyes and her voice trembled as she added her appreciation for what the Hardy boys had done. " she said.

Oscar Smuff was the last to arrive. Instantly he demanded to know what was

going on. Frank and Joe had hoped to have a little fun with him, but Tessie and Paula, unable to restrain their enthusiasm, shouted, "

As Frank and Joe reddened in embarrassment, Detective Smuff looked at them disbelievingly. " he almost screamed. "

As all the others nodded, Slim spoke up, "

" Smuff demanded suspiciously.

"

Mr. Robinson straightened up. " he said, "

To everyone's amazement, Adelia Applegate arose and went to stand by the man's side. " she said dramatically. "

" her brother shouted disbelievingly.

"

Miss Applegate's announcement astounded her listeners. Robinson stood up, shook her hand, and said in a shaky voice, "

Hurd Applegate cleared his throat, then said, "

After everyone had taken seats in the large living room of the mansion, the owner went on, "

" exclaimed Chet, and Mrs. Hardy said, "

" Hurd Applegate went on. "I want to make a public apology to Mr. Robinson. Adelia and I are extremely sorry for all the trouble

we've caused him. Robinson, if you will come back and work for us, we promise to treat you like the gentleman you are. We will increase your salary and we have decided to build that greenhouse you want. You'll have free rein to raise all the rare flowers you wish to."

There was a gasp from everyone in the room. All eyes were turned on Mr.

Robinson. Slowly he arose from his chair, walked over to Mr. Applegate, and shook his hand.

" he said. "

As he returned to his chair, Mr. Applegate said, "

" exclaimed Detective Smuff.

" Adelia Applegate corrected him severely, "

" Smuff continued, unheeding. "

The thought was too much for him. He dropped his head in his hands and groaned aloud. Frank and Joe did not dare look at each other. They were finding it difficult to restrain their laughter.

" Hurd Applegate went on. "

He took the two checks from a pocket and handed one each to Frank and Joe, who accepted them with thanks. Mr. Applegate now invited his guests into the dining room for sandwiches, cake, and cold drinks.

As Frank and Joe ate, they were congratulated over and over by the others in the room. They accepted it all with a grin, but secretly, each boy had a little feeling of sadness that the case had ended. They hoped another mystery would soon come their way, and one did at THE HOUSE ON THE CLIFF.

"What are you fellows going to do with all that money?"

Frank had an instant answer. "

And Joe added, "Frank and I for some time have wanted to build a crime lab

on the second floor of our barn. Now we can do it. All right, Dad?"

The detective smiled and nodded. "






